{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The first video game I ever remember seeing was in an chip shop while we were on holiday. While waiting for my Dad to buy chips, myself and my brother watched a collection of wire-frame shapes drift around the screen. We didn\'d5t have any money to play the game, and Dad wouldn\'d5t give us any - so all we could do was watch.\
\
Now of course I know the game was called \'d2Asteroids\'d3, and was a direct ancestor of perhaps the first ever space game, \'d2Space War\'d3, written by the students at MIT in the 1970s.\
\
My next brush with video games came while on holiday in Spain - our first overseas holiday as a family. We visited the \'d2Costa Del Sol\'d3 - the fashionable place for families to visit at the turn of the 1980s, with my Mum\'d5s brother and his family. The hotel was all inclusive, and us kids (myself, my brother, and my cousins Simon and Nathan) were given free rein around the hotel complex. Dotted around the hotel, and in cafes near it, there were coin operated arcade machines playing two video games we had never seen before - \'d2Galaxians\'d3, and \'d2Phoenix\'d3. They cost 25 pesetas per game to play. At some point my brother discovered that a british two pence coin also worked in the machines, and he became an expert at both games - well - until we ran out of two pence pieces.\
\
I don\'d5t remember playing the games myself - I was only about nine years old, and more concerned with going swimming than standing in the hotel, or the nearby cafe watching others play games. My brother did though - and spent hours hanging around the machines watching others play them if he hadn\'d5t managed to beg any more money from Dad.\
\
Thinking back, leaning on the corner of arcade machines, and watching others play was a core part of the video game experience when I grew up. If you visited an arcade, most of which looked and sounded exactly like Flynn\'d5s in the movie Tron, you would see hoards of children and young adults congregated around their favourite games, watching, giving tips, and commenting on each other\'d5s play.\
\
Perhaps six months later I was doing something in the lounge after school - playing with lego probably - when I noticed Dad\'d5s car pull up on the driveway, and my brother carry a large box into the house, with a very serious look on his face - the sort of serious look when you\'d5re carrying the crown jewels. Or an Atari VCS 2600.\
\
The Atari was THE games machine in the early 1980s, and my brother had one. It was plugged into the TV in the lounge, and would be played with almost to destruction. Our house became a kind of video game mecca among my brother and his friends - there are photos somewhere of the gathering on our living room floor during the summer - with perhaps four boys sitting cross legged, taking turns to have the next go.\
\
Notice I said boys - apart from my Mum, who became addicted to the pinball game, I don\'d5t remember any girls coming round to play on the Atari at all.\
\
I have a vague memory that my brother \'d2clocked\'d3 Pacman - scored a score so high that the score counter looped around. It took most of a Saturday morning to do it.\
\
The Atari survived in our house until the MSX arrived for Christmas in 1983. Although laughably rubbish now, the games for the MSX seemed every bit as good as the arcade games we had been paying to play, so the Atari got consigned to a drawer under a bed almost immediately, and eventually given away. What fools we were - they fetch a small fortune as pieces of video game history now.\
\
The MSX was mine. My brother had started competing in schoolbox motocross by 1983, and pretty much left video games behind. By the time I was 11, my world pretty much existed inside the computer.\
\
I\'d5m trying not to write too much about the MSX, or the Atari ST, because I\'d5ve covered them elsewhere - suffice to say that the string of home computers that lead all the way to the PC sitting under the desk opposite me has been more-or-less linear from the age of 11, through to the present. Thirty-odd-years of playing games on various computers - computers were not really designed for games though. Games consoles were.\
\
The first games console I had that was mine, and mine alone was a Nintendo Entertainment System, or \'d2NES\'d3. The pack I got had the console, a light gun, and a robot called \'d2Rob\'d3 that could watch the screen and respond to commands in games. Rob was very impressive, but ate large collections of batteries for breakfast, so didn\'d5t make it much past Boxing Day before being consigned to a shelf in my bedroom. I seem to remember the entire Christmas the Nintendo arrived being spent shooting clay pigeons, and ducks, in a game called \'d2Duck Hunt\'d3. Everybody that visited over Christmas played it, and was reluctant to take turns. I think my aunt actually visited in order to play it more than once.\
\
I can still remember my brother talking me into buying a copy of Super Mario Brothers - a ridiculous video game where you ran around the screen as an improbably small Italian plumber, until you ate a mushroom, after which you doubled in size. Why am I explaining any of this? Everybody knows who Super Mario is, surely? Have you ever really thought about it though? A guy that runs round stamping on turtles, and eating mushrooms?\
\
I never quite understood the Super Mario \'d2mania\'d3 - I played the game through a few times, and lost interest in it pretty quickly. My brother\'d5s first serious girlfriend had it bad - she spent most of each weekend playing the various Super Mario games to the exclusion of almost everything else.\
\
The next console to enter the house was almost certainly a Sega Megadrive - bought with money from a summer job. My brother had borrowed one from a work colleague for a weekend, and I couldn\'d5t believe what I was seeing - there were Ice Hockey, and American Football games where the playing areas seemed to be in 3D - it blew our minds. Suddenly the Nintendo was a bit rubbish. It didn\'d5t stop me ending up buying both a Megadrive (known as \'d2Genesis\'d3 in the US), and a SNES - the successor to the Nintendo.\
\
The SNES had one party trick that no other console at the time could get anywhere near matching - it was called \'d2Mode 7\'d3, and allowed the machine to smoothly rotate a picture in three dimensions. Have you ever seen Mario Kart on the Super Nintendo? Without Mode 7, Mariokart would never have existed. Mode 7 was also used in Super Soccer, and Super Tennis. Most of the games for the Super Nintendo began with \'d2Super\'d3 - when in reality very few of them actually were. Super Mario World was though, and almost got me interested in being a mushroom eating, turtle smashing Italian plumber again.\
\
I remember visiting my little cousin on boxing day the year the Super Nintendo was the \'d2toy to have\'d3, and seeing her Dad crouched in front of the TV. He had caught the Super Mario bug too. He and his wife argued over who\'d5s go it was next throughout Christmas. Actually, they argued most of the time, and would later get divorced, but we\'d5ll keep out of that one.\
\
\
}