{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Apparently my start a infant school didn\'d5t go well. I was pretty determined at 5 years old that I wasn\'d5t going to be going to school, thankyou very much, and my Mum would be coming to get me - which she did for the first few days - to take me home for lunch, and then back in again.\
\
Thinking back, it must have been a bit of a nightmare - we lived well over a mile from the school, so no sooner had my Mum got home after dropping me off on a morning, she would have had to turn around, and walk back again. Obviously at some point I realised there was far too much walking back and forth involved, and decided that staying at school would be far easier - mostly for me.\
\
The school I attended was one of four in the town - and perhaps the biggest. After entering through the main gates, you would walk through the junior school playground, and on towards the infant buildings on the far side. Most of the early years classrooms were built in the 1960s along the edge of a tarmac playground lined - which doubled as a netball court - with telegraph pole benches around it\'d5s perimeter. Rather mysteriously, there were climbing frames on the school field alongside that we were never allowed to touch. It was very frustrating.\
\
My first teacher was a bubbly lady by the name of Mrs Hollenberg. I don\'d5t remember her face - just her mass of curly red-brown hair, and the huge flowery dresses she wore. I also remember her cutting letters of the alphabet from pages of broad-sheet newspapers, and pinning them to the walls of the classroom.\
\
A little way through my first year of infant school, it became obvious why Mrs Hollenberg wore the giant flowery dresses - she was rather heavily pregnant. We arrived in class one day to discover she had been replaced by a tall, young, elegant, and looking back, beautiful lady with jet black hair called Mrs Ellis.\
\
Until Mrs Ellis had a car crash.\
\
I remember our teacher changing again - to a Mrs Komenick, who all the parents at the school gate adored, and I can remember Mrs Ellis returning to work some weeks later. We were to be careful of brushing against her legs on account of her injuries. She and another teacher - Mrs Woodcock - had been in the car, and both of them seriously injured. Of course none of this was communicated on to us at the time - we found out years later.\
\
My only real memory of Mrs Ellis is that she was quite strict. This may have had quit a lot to do with my propensity to daydream. I was good at daydreaming - I still am. Where most people have distracting thoughts, I seem to have an entire theatre of the mind going on - playing out scenes that haven\'d5t happened and probably never will happen in their entirety.\
\
I suppose there is one other memory - but I\'d5m not sure if it\'d5s to do with my teacher\'d5s injuries, or a very early sense of \'d2I shouldn\'d5t be doing this\'d3. During story time one day, while a group of us sat on a rug to listen to Mrs Ellis read from a story book in that upside down fashion that teachers are so good at, she needed to get up and fetch something - so strode over the top of us all, picking her way through the gaps between us, her skirt billowing as she did so. Myself and a friend looked up as she passed overhead - on purpose. Here\'d5s the funny thing - I have absolutely no memory of what we saw, but I do remember looking at my friend wide-eyed as we sat cross-legged, and giggling at our own bravery and/or stupidity.\
\
You\'d5ll be glad to know that was my only such brush with such goings on - I didn\'d5t progress to dropping things underneath girls skirts, or playing kiss chase on the field at lunchtimes in the summer.\
\
Each day - after arriving at school, we would gather in the school hall, sitting cross-legged on the herring bone patterned wooden flooring, and listen to the headmaster as he made announcements, and probably picked something witty or interesting to say from a book of witty and interesting things to say for headmasters. He was a frightening man if you were five years old - perhaps sixty-something years old, always in an immaculate suit, slicked back hair, and a tiny moustache. Kind of a more friendly version of Hitler, I suppose. He drove a lumbering Jaguar to school - the kind you sometimes see criminals drive in 1950s movies starring Lesley Phillips and Terry Thomas.\
\
What we didn\'d5t know about W.R.Tull (that was his name) was that he had been a Lancaster bomber navigator during the second world war. We found this out when my brother took a model aircraft he had been building into school, and was accosted by Mr Tull while showing it to his friends. A sea of children gathered around him as he told stories about ditching in the sea, and floating on the waves in inflatable boats until help arrived. He pointed out the panel on the side of the plane where the boat was stored, and we all listened in stunned (and frightened) silence.\
\
Getting back to the school hall, if you had achieved anything of note during the school day, you would be invited to stand at the front and receive the congratulations of the rest of the school - every day names were read out, and certificates handed out by the headmaster, one at a time, to thunderous applause. He read out the names from a lectern at the side of the stage area.\
\
I got to stand on the stage perhaps four or five times during my time at junior school - for various smimming certificates, and to act out a parable from the bible with the rest of my class.\
\
Our school had a swimming pool! How could I forget that! For such a small school (there were perhaps three hundred pupils across years one to six) to have a swimming pool was unusual to say the least - it had been paid for by fundraising by parents over several years, and the school was very, very proud of it.\
\
The pool was in an unheated out-building, on the edge of the school field. It was ten metres long, by five metres wide, and about as deep as an adult\'d5s hips (not very deep at all). The walls were painted white, with a mural running all the way around with under-sea scenes - octopi, fish, coral reefs, and even Poseidon, if memory serves. The boys and girls changing rooms were communal (we were only five, remember) - although there was a half-height dividing wall between the benches where the girls and boys would get changed. If we stood on the benches to look over at the girls getting changed, the instant screams would alert teachers, and we would find ourselves in all sorts of trouble.\
\
It\'d5s funny how punishments form such a big part of your memory of your early school years - even if you rarely found yourself in trouble. At my school if you did anything ridiculous at break-time or lunchtime, you would find yourself \'d2in the middle\'d3. This referred to a small circle painted in the centre of the playground, that was kind of the real-world equivalent of the phantom zone that General Zod got confined to in Superman. You had to stand in the circle for the rest of playtime, and a teacher would deal with you afterwards. Nobody was allowed to talk to anybody standing \'d2in the middle\'d3, and if you were \'d2in the middle\'d3, you were not allowed to talk to anybody else. To be honest, it was incredibly rare that anybody ended up standing in the imaginary purgatory - I only did once, as far as I can remember - for squirting a dinner-lady with a fake flower ring filled with water. I thought I was tremendously funny until I saw her reaction. I can\'d5t imagine how the teacher kept a straight face while telling me how disappointed she was in my behaviour.\
\
Perhaps the most humorous \'d2in the middle\'d3 episode happened a couple of years later - when I was in the juniors. At the end of playtime, all of the children would form into class lines at the edges of the playground, ready to be walked back into class by our teachers. This of course left anybody standing in the middle doing exactly that - standing in the middle - waiting for a member of staff to approach, question, and express their disappointment. There was this one time though, when the boy standing in the middle decided he had had enough of it all - and rather than listen to the aerated teacher rant at him (he was a well known lunatic of a child), he turned and ran. I can still see the teacher racing off after him across the playground, and catching him after a few strides - lifting him with huge hands around his upper arms, and his legs still running in midair as he was marched - still running - towards the head-master\'d5s office. Shocked and stunned whispers murmured all around the playground for quite some time before we all began filing in for afternoon lessons.\
\
That same little boy died in a car crash years later. He passed his driving test, and days later killed himself, and very nearly killed his friends while driving like a lunatic. I\'d5ve often wondered if he might have been an example of nature versus nurture. His parents were lovely, and his brother was lovely - he became one of my best friends - but his little brother was an absolute lunatic, and everybody knew it.\
\
Another memory of infant school was the school tuck-shop. At the beginning of break-time each day, you were allowed to venture to the adjoining junior-school playground, and visit their tuck-shop, that sold packets of crisps (invariably the cheapest crisps available from whichever retailer), and foil-wrapped cookies called \'d2Mojo\'d3s. Each item only cost a few pence, and the shop was run by students, who took turns to be shop-keeper for the day - I\'d5ll get back to this later. I can still remember the day - at about six years old - when Sarah Bates arrived back in our classroom during a wet playtime, in floods of tears. The crisps had gone up in price by 1 pence, meaning she didn\'d5t have enough money to buy any. It took her quite some time to calm down enough to tell the teacher what had happened.\
\
}