{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 I remember the first day of my \'d2proper\'d3 job like it was yesterday.\
\
It was a Monday in May, 1995. I got up early, had a shower, a shave, and put on smart clothes. I would not be returning to the family business ever again. I would never have to file invoices and statements ever again. Never process the payroll ever again. Never wake up to my Dad shouting up the stairs to give me a lift. It was on me now.\
\
After an informal chat with the managing director a few weeks previously, I had been given a three month probationary period, and a very small salary indeed. I didn\'d5t really care though - I was finally doing what I wanted - nerding out with computers all day - and to be honest I would have done it for free at that point in my life.\
\
Whenever I left the house for work I would walk away from the house doing a strange sort of hail-mary - checking pockets for wallet, keys, and mobile phone. My brother thought it was hilarious that I had a mobile phone - it had been bought on an impulse while shopping in Oxford one weekend. I had very few outgoings, so could afford it - I still lived with my parents, and only had to pay them a small amount each week from my pay packet - they called it \'d2keep\'d3.\
\
I used a briefcase for the first few days in the new job - bought through a stamp scheme at the local petrol station. Inside the briefcase was a filofax - my first filofax - and I thought myself tremendously important in having one. In the days before starting work I had filled out the calendar, contacts, and various notes pages with all manner of rubbish - just to make it look like I used it. In truth I had very few places to be, things to do, or people to call. When I see pictures of peoples bullet journals these days, they make me smile because I can see straight through them.\
\
I used to get the bus to work. I remember standing at the bus-stop under the \'d2Iron Bridge\'d3 a little way from our house - the bridge of so many childhood bicycle accidents. To a six year old the bridge was impressively enormous - the kind of thing Evil Kinevil would have used in one of his tremendous stunts. I remember standing on the paving stones of the bus stop, and figuring out that my feet were almost the same length as the paving stones were wide - it\'d5s amazing the things you notice when you have nothing else to do. I also remember an RAF officer that would regularly cycle past - he always looked gaunt, wind-swept, and had an impressive grey moustache.\
\
The busses that ran between Carterton and Witney were about two thirds the size of a coach, and ran every twenty minutes or so during mornings and evenings. They were subsidised, meaning the ticket were ridiculously cheap, and I always thought it strange that more people didn\'d5t use them. The morning bus I usually caught had the same people on it almost every day - people doing the same as me - commuting to work. There was a neat older gentleman that always wore a grey suit, was balding with slicked back hair, and wore large wire-rimmed glasses. I suspected he was something to do with the police, given how neat and tidy he always was. He typically sat next to a lady in her 60s with huge reading glasses shaped like a butterfly.\
\
On the return journey there would often be a pretty girl that got off at the same stop as me. In the several years that we shared the journey I desperately wanted to say hello to her, but never said a word beyond offering to let her out of her seat before me. People often talk about \'d2sliding doors\'d3 moments in your life, and I sometimes wonder what would have happened if we had become friends on the bus, and shared the journey home from work together each day. The only time I ever interracted with her was when some idiots got on the bus one evening (they had obviously been in the pub), and were trying to chat her up all the way home - when we got to our stop, I tried to look as big and confident as I could, reached out a hand, and said \'d2I think this is our stop?\'d3 - I\'d5ll never forget the beaming smile, or the exhale and \'d2THANKYOU!\'d3 when the bus doors closed behind us. We at least progressed to smiles after that.\
\
I used to be SO shy.\
\
The bus went through Brize Norton and Curbridge en-route to Witney. All I really knew about Curbridge was a comment from my Uncle that moved to America - that he had once been out with a girl from Curbridge, and he had been a horrible person. Quite how he decided that the entire village was populated by horrible people on the strength of one girl is something of a mystery. I remember us all laughing at his story, and him doubling down - ranting about the village for quite some time. I think he may have been drinking.\
\
After arriving in the centre of Witney, my route took me across the church green, past Harry Enfield\'d5s house (a television celebrity - everybody said he lived there, but nobody knew exactly where), through the grounds of the really quite impressive St Mary\'d5s church, and along a tree line path through a park called \'d2The Leas\'d3 - the site of a funfair called \'d2Witney Feast\'d3 each year.\
\
Childhood memories of Witney Feast abound. I think it was begun in the middle-ages as a hog roast run by the local nobility for the peasants - but in the modern era had become a vast, noisy, brightly lit invasion of hydraulics, bumber cars, screaming, candyfloss, toffee apples, and fairground families. The yearly arrival of Witney Feast was greeted in the same vein as Christmas by children, and probably dreaded by parents.\
\
For the rest of the year, the Leas stood empty - a quiet place with towering oak trees that you could sit under at lunchtime in the summer, and get away from the office. I know, because I did - usually with Debbie from reception.\
\
After leaving the Leas and following road-signs through a small industrial the other side of the road that skirted the Leas, I found myself climbing a set of stairs, and stepping into a smart, busy office populated with people wearing office clothes - something of a novelty after so long spent either as a student, or on the shop-floor of a working quarry. A smiling lady in her mid-40s with perfect hair stood up from her desk, shook my hand, and said \'d2You must be Jonathan!\'d3\
\
I was told to wait in a glass walled area at the end of the office that looked suspiciously like it was made from pieces of a conservatory. While nervously waiting, I watched the office full of strangers going about their morning - using the copier machine, stopping by each other\'d5s desks to chat, typing things into their computers, and leaning back in chairs with phone handsets clasped to their ears. After a minute or two I recognise the boss - the man I had met a few weeks earlier. He\'d5s being interrupted every few steps by questions from the staff around him.\
\
\'d2Good morning! Good to see you! If you come with me, I\'d5ll show you to your desk - your computer arrived on Friday - I\'d5ll give you some time to get yourself sorted out, and then  we could perhaps have a get-together mid-morning to meet everybody, and find out what you can get started on.\'d3\
\
We wandered past several desks, and I was conscious of being watched. I shook hands with people, smiled, greeted people politely, and told them I would struggle with their names.\
\
In the far corner of the office I find an empty desk, surrounded by software boxes and new hardware. After putting my briefcase down, and sitting in the new office chair, the main sitting directly in front of me spins round in his chair, smiling.\
\
\'d2Don\'d5t you take any notice of what these lots say about you, young John - you look like a fine young man to me\'d3.\
\
He then bursts into a song about a boy standing on a burning aircraft carrier deck with sticks of explosives in his pockets. His name was David Lines, and he became a wonderful friend, mentor, and conspirator in endless stories throughout my years working with him. I\'d5ll save those stories for another day though. There are many.\
\
Laughing politely at his hand-grenade comment, I busy myself with unpacking the new toys on the desk. Windows for Workgroups 3.11, and Microsoft Access 2. I press the power button on the beige box tucked under the desk, and the computer chirps into life - filling the new monitor screen with jibberish.\
\
Bloody hell fire.\
\
They bought me a Pentium. The first pentium I, or anybody I knew had ever seen. It was the most powerful computer in the entire company, and it was mine.\
\
I remember a very distinct thought going through my head for a few seconds - \'d2please don\'d5t let me fuck this up\'d3.}