{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 When I say that the internet had \'d2arrived\'d3, that\'d5s obviously not entirely true. The Internet had been in development since the 1960s - first through Arpanet (the Advanced Research Projects Network) used by the US military, and then through the work of Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn at BBN to improve it.\
\
You see - the first version of what we now call \'d2The Internet\'d3 was designed rather badly. Each computer had to be wired directly to each other computer on the network. Also, each computer ran different software, and interfaced with other computers in different ways - so to get two computers to talk to each other, you had to develop bespoke software to translate in either direction. Add to that the idiocy of adding more computers to the network, along with wires to all the other computers, and methods of communication between them all, and you can see the problem.\
\
Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn invented \'d2TCP/IP\'d3, and \'d2Packet Switching\'d3. They are still used today, and describe a standard way through which any number of computers wired to the same network can communicate with each other - picking and choosing which information being sent across the network is for them, and sending that information as lots of tiny bits (packets), which can be re-compiled at the destination.\
\
The beauty of packet switching came in the idea that computers in the middle of the spiders-web of interconnected machines could be knocked out, and the network would still work - finding new routes for packets around the problem areas. You can see straight away why this might have been developed - the threat of nuclear war - and you can also see that once you build the network, you can\'d5t really switch it off - because it will survive your attempts.\
\
Except you could. And it happened. By accident.\
\
In the early days of the internet, before the World Wide Web had really taken off, it became obvious that it should be easier to identify computers on the network than by their \'d2address\'d3 on the network - a group of integers split by periods (you\'d5ve probably seen these numbers - IP addresses - the internet still works the same way). The idea of \'d2domain names\'d3 was thought up - names that represented the numbers - such as \'d2harvard.edu\'d3, or \'d2yahoo.com\'d3. The list of names correlating to addresses obviously needed to be copied to each server - so when a request was made of a given computer system by it\'d5s name, the system would know that a given name meant a given IP address. Rather than have a single computer giving out the addresses, it was thought best that each of the big computer systems on the network should have their own copy, and replicate changes from the master database. The fault in this system? The master database.\
\
The computer at the centre of the domain name system died one day, and over the next few hours the internet stopped working for the millions of people using it around the world. Needless to say it was eventually fixed - but yeah - proves even the geniuses that built the internet were fallible.\
\
Sorry for the history lesson.\
\
So - the internet had been around for a while, in educational institutions, and government facilities, but had not really happened outside of that.\
\
What *had* happened was a madcap priesthood of crazy people running their own systems via the telephone network. They were called Bulletin Boards - and you needed a modem to access them.\
\
Guess who bought a modem.\
\
I was at PC World with my Dad buying printer ink and paper. PC World had opened a few months earlier, and was something of a novelty - a one-stop-shop where you could buy anything from a box of paper, to a mouse, or even a desktop computer.\
\
In the months previously I had been reading computer magazines, and had seen numerous adverts for an online service called \'d2Compuserve\'d3 that promised to connect you with the world. The advert showed a distant house in the middle of nowhere, with one light on, and some blurb about never being alone, no matter how remote you might be. I was sold.\
\
We bought a V32bis modem - the meaning of the code is now lost in the sands of time - I think it means the modem would communicate on the V-Modem protocol with other computers, at a rate of 32,000 bits a second. The various protocols bestowed different error correction, and compression powers on the modem - the likelihood that data would be transmitted correctly.\
\
The modem sat between the computer, and the telephone line in your house, using a splitter cable. While you were connected to the internet, you were essentially making a call to the \'d2Internet Service Provider\'d3, who would then connect you to the internet. These days the modem in your house essentially acts as both the modem, AND the gateway - back then, the ISP was the gateway. Well - except if you connected to a Bulletin Board system.\
\
Bulletin Board systems were perhaps the earliest form of internet community for the masses - you could connect to a server, and browse conversations on any number of subjects, and pitch into them yourselves. While some bulletin boards were self contained, others acted as a bridge between you, and a far bigger community message board system called Usenet. We now know usenet as \'d2newsgroups\'d3 - I\'d5m not really sure why.\
\
I fell in love with usenet immediately. I had read no end of conspiracy theory books during my teenage years, and knew that all the best information (or misinformation, it turns out) was being published to usenet - to groups such as alt.ufo. After watching endless episodes of The X-Files, and forming an unexplainable attraction to Gillian Anderson, hoardes of people too to Usenet to share anything they thought they knew, and even found ways of transferring photos through plain text. It was called UUEncoding, and proved that porn will ALWAYS find a way.\
\
The one problem with bulletin board systems is that you had to be connected to them in order to read, write, and reply to messages. Sure, there were fancy software applications called \'d2Off Line Readers\'d3 that made that process more efficient, but it was still a largely disconnected, overtly technical, and user unfriendly world.\
\
The general public would never have taken to the online world in the numbers they did without the help of two companies - Compuserve, and America Online. They each created their own bulletin board system, but polished it to within an inch of it\'d5s life, and dumbed everything down.\
\
The systems aped bulletin boards, and introduced private messaging (email with the wider internet was still not a thing - if you were connected to Compuserve, you could only message fellow users of Compuserve, for example).\
\
I had accounts at both Compuserve, and America Online over the next year or so. As has often happened through history, the massively inferior product won out - America Online, or AOL as it came to be known flooded the world with CDs containing the software installer for their system. Every magazine had an AOL CD on the cover, and they were even sent through the post. Millions upon millions of them.\
\
If you look around in gardens, and allotments, you still see AOL CDs from time to time - made into bird scarers, hanging from pieces of string.\
\
I miss Compuserve. I still remember my ID number (you had an ID number - not a username) - mine was 100333,3457. I\'d5ve often wondered if there was a structure to the user ID numbers - if the various parts of the number meant anything at all. Of all of the various interest groups and clubs available at Compuserve, the Writers Forum still stands out in my memory. I made my first real online friendships with strangers there, and took part in numerous writing exercises.\
\
The Compuserve advert was actually true - no matter who you were, or where you were, you could connect and find your tribe.\
\
I can remember the day a new icon appeared in both the Compuserve, and AOL interfaces. It looked like a picture of a globe, and launched a second piece of software called \'d2NCSA Mosaic\'d3. Mosaic opened to a blank screen, with a text box above, that you could enter \'d2addresses\'d3 into.\
\
It was 1993, and it was the World Wide Web.\
\
A guy called Tim Berners Lee at the CERN project in Switzerland had become frustrated that even though the various computer systems were not connected to each other through the \'d2internet\'d3, there was still no easy way of publishing notes and research for others to see - so he set about inventing it.\
\
It\'d5s easy to say now that the world wide web changed everything - but when it first appeared it was slow, buggy, and the software tended to crash a lot. Magazines wrote at length about it\'d5s importance, and it\'d5s growing popularity - emphasising its open, decentralised nature. Where Compuserve forums could only be visited by Compuserve members, and AOL forums could only be visited by AOL members, the World Wide Web could be used by everybody.\
\
It came as no surprise, decades later, when Tim Berners Lee appeared at the opening of the London Olympic Games, and keyed into a NeXT workstation \'d2This is for everybody\'d3.\
\
}