{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In most respects, Evesham is an unremarkable market town in Worcestershire (pronounced \'d2Woostershire\'d3, for the benefit of international readers). During my childhood we would often drive past on the way to the coast, and stop at one of the many farms with road-side stalls to buy vegetables, cookies, or even cups of tea.\
\
In the mid to late 1980s, Evesham became rather remarkable in my little world though - because it had a better computer shop than I had seen anywhere I had ever seen. Admittedly, I had never seen many computer shops, but that\'d5s beside the point. Let\'d5s just agree that it was very, very good indeed - and that it sold Atari STs.\
\
I can still remember standing in the shop on the day we bought the computer. While we waited for the shop assistant to go out to the back of the store and pick up the computer and software we had ordered, we looked around at the same model of computer on display, and the various video games available for it. An enterprising assistant realised what we were doing, and quietly wandered over to \'d2help\'d3.\
\
He loaded a couple of video games for us to look at. One was a three dimensional game of pool, with balls hanging in mid-air - we had never seen anything like it before, and found ourselves staring goggle eyed at it for some time. Next he dug out a copy of a new game that had just arrived in the store in a large grey box. It was called \'d2Flight Simulator 2\'d3.\
\
For the next five minutes we stood mouths agape as a pretend Cessna taxied onto the runway at Oakland International Airport, across the bay from San Francisco, rolled down the runway at full throttle, and took to the air. I looked at my Dad, and he looked at me. There was a problem. The Flight Simulator game cost several times more than the savings I had taken with me.\
\
\'d2Don\'d5t tell your Mum\'d3.\
\
We bought the computer, a rather large and mysterious blue box containing a music application called \'d2Steinberg Pro 24\'d3, and a copy of Flight Simulator 2.\
\
I spent the next several weeks flying pretend Cessnas and Learjets around pretend west coast America. I learned to take off, land, loop the loop, and crash in all sorts of inventive ways. I even started to learn how to use the various instruments in the plane to navigate from one airport to another.\
\
Of course my grades at school plummeted. It was only natural. From the moment I got home, until the moment I went to bed, I sat in front of the computer. I wasn\'d5t the only one either.\
\
The blue box we also bought contained a program that essentially turned the computer into a recording studio mixing desk. We had no idea how it worked, or how to use it, but we had all sorts of fun recording and playing back tunes on the big music keyboard across the room, with wires precariously dangling between the keyboard, and the computer.\
\
It was all going so well until Dad accidentally deleted everything on the floppy disk the music program was on.\
\
Oops.\
\
We received another copy through the post a week or so later, but it was perhaps a first (rather brutal) lesson in how computer\'d5s really worked.\
\
At school I became a minor celebrity for a few days. Very few other people had comparable computers. I enthused endlessly about the flight simulator game, and might have embellished reality a little in my descriptions of the lavish game world. Even thirty years on, I don\'d5t think video games have quite matched my descriptions of that game to friends while we were supposed to be getting on with technical drawing assignments.\
\
I\'d5m not quite sure when I first saw a word processor. At around the same time the Atari ST arrived at home, we were also studying computers at school. The school had a random assortment of CPM compatible machines forced on them by the local education authority. One afternoon our \'d2Computer Studies\'d3 lesson comprised mostly of working through tasks with an early version of Wordstar. I was paired with one of my best friends - a boy called Simon - and we rattled through the exercises in no time at all. We then did what any self respecting kids would do when sat in front of a glorified typewriter - we started writing a story.\
\
Simon lost his temper with me when the story took a madcap turn half-way through the first sentence, and became progressively more ridiculous. I had stumbled upon something I liked doing. While writing in a book was a chore, typing a story into a computer seemed as easy as breathing.\
\
A few weeks later I bought a magazine with a floppy disk stuck to the cover that had free software on it. Among the various freebies was a word processor.\
\
Guess who stopped playing games, and started writing? I wish I still had copies of the utter rubbish I wrote back then. Sure, it would be cringe-worthy, embarrassing, and unimaginably awful, but it would also be charming, in a \'d2so bad it might be good\'d3 way.\
\
Then of course there was the printer. One Christmas a huge box arrived home with Dad with a printer in it. Apparently it was for my aunt, for Christmas. It was hidden upstairs, and we were under no circumstance to tell her anything about it.\
\
Of COURSE it wasn\'d5t for my aunt. It was one of the most successful swindles in Christmas history. It was for me. I spent that entire Christmas period printing all manner of rubbish. I didn\'d5t really need to print any of it - but I could, so I did. It was a \'d2dot matrix\'d3 printer. This would mean nothing to anybody that has been born in the last twenty years. When you talk to accountants about dot matrix printers, they come over all misty-eyed, and recall tails about ledger printouts on wide-carriage tractor-feed paper.\
\
You see, dot matrix printers worked by hammering an ink filled ribbon against the paper with a print head that had a row of tiny pins in it. As it passed along the paper, the pins fired back and forth at tremendous speed, smashing the shapes of letters onto the page. As the print head performed this feat, the entire assembly made a curious mechanical screaming sound. A very annoying mechanical screaming sound, if you were not the person printing something out.\
\
Along with the printer, I also received a piece of software called a \'d2database\'d3. I had no idea what it was for - but my Dad did. Looking back, it\'d5s obvious now that he bought it for himself, and wrapped it up for me. Within days his office had a new telephone list, and he had begun compiling a list of all the pieces of music in the various music books we owned.\
\
Years ago, when you visited a public library, you would look up books by pulling out huge files, and flicking through thousands of pages of printouts in search of the book title you were interested in. My Dad pretty much did the same thing with all of our sheet-music. When he updated the printed list, the printer would scream for hours. I bet Mum loved it.\
\
The computer wasn\'d5t all about work though. Over time, we acquired all manner of games, and I continued to do really quite badly at school. My friends also acquired similar computers, and we would spend our evenings visiting each other\'d5s houses to play and copy games instead of doing homework.\
\
One particular friend emerged as something of a prodigy during our school years. His name was Michael, and he lived across town. His Mum was spectacularly scary. There\'d5s no nice way of saying that. I still remember the first time I called at his house - she opened the door wearing an apron, and barked \'d2WHAT DO YOU WANT SONNY?\'d3 at me in an aggressive Scottish accent.\
\
Michael wasn\'d5t like you and me. Michael understood computers - really understood them. While we could switch them on, and follow instructions to make them do things, he could take them to pieces, and change the way they worked. Before he too got an Atari ST, he had a BBC micro, and would regularly pull chips from the motherboard, explaining what he was doing as he went. I understood none of it.\
\
It\'d5s probably worth mentioning that Michael also built a plasma generator from an old microwave oven, and burned a hole straight through his finger with a giant pink ark of electricity by accident. He survived.\
\
What does this have to do with the Atari ST though? Quite a lot, it turns out. In the later years of the 16 bit computer boom, a strange subculture developed of people writing \'d2demos\'d3 - demonstrations of their know-how and brilliance. Essentially small pieces of software to showcase how much the hardware was really capable of. Michael single handedly wrote one of the most impressive demos I have ever seen - even to this day. While most people understood how to program in Basic, or C at a stretch, Michael could write assembly language - one step away from typing a mile long stream of one\'d5s and zeros straight into the computer\'d5s brain. Like I said - Michael was different, and brilliant.\
\
One of the most significant developments in my world during the years we had the Atari ST was the fruition of a savings policy that my Dad had been putting money into since I was little. I think I was perhaps 16 when they money suddenly arrived in my pocket - more money than I had ever had in my life before - and my parents said I could use it for whatever I liked, as long as I chose sensible things. We returned to Evesham within days.\
\
The computer got an immediate upgrade, doubling it\'d5s memory, an external floppy disk drive was bought - allowing copying from one disk to another - and perhaps most significantly, a high resolution monitor was acquired. I thought I was the King of the world. You might wonder why a high resolution monitor was important - but you have to remember that back in the late 1980s, most computers used televisions, or dedicated monitors (such as the somewhat famous Phillips CM8833) - both of which were hopelessly blurry if trying to use for anything other than games. The high resolution monitor was monochrome only, but double the resolution of the colour monitors, and pin sharp. In short, you could write stories in a word processor, and not end up with eye strain.\
\
This is all getting a bit nerdy, isn\'d5t it - all this talk of specifications, hardware, and such like. I suppose one of the more important things that also came out of this era was community. It\'d5s worth remembering that in the years before the internet, the only way you might interact with other computer users was via a \'d2Computer Club\'d3 (the town I lived in didn\'d5t have one), or by visiting friends who had computers.\
\
It\'d5s a strange thought really, isn\'d5t it - visiting your friend\'d5s house, purely so you could mess around with computers together. It seems like such a \'d2boy\'d3 thing to do (and before you ask, I have three daughters, so I do have some perspective).\
\
There was another means of discovering your \'d2herd\'d3 though - each year in the run up to Christmas, a huge computer trade magazine called \'d2Computer Shopper\'d3 ran a show in London, perhaps not surprisingly called \'d2The Computer Shopper Show\'d3. My Dad took me along late in 1989, and we were kind of stunned - the most computer stuff we had seen in one place was the showroom at Evesham Micros - this was an entire exhibition hall, filled to the rafters with not only trade stalls, but also exhibition stands by anybody and everybody in the industry. Many of the computer and video game manufacturers were there, and a lot of the software development houses were there too. It was vast. Beyond belief. Of course the main reason the industry was exploding had nothing to do with video game consoles, or the Atari ST, or the Commodore Amiga - the PC had begun to arrive in people\'d5s homes.\
\
My first experience of using a PC was really at college. I studied Computer Science, and had to learn a programming language called \'d2Pascal\'d3 for many of the coursework assignments. The computer science lecturer was a wonderfully quirky guy called Jeremy Jackson, who walked with a limp, and sported a long dark fringe, often combed across his forehead, and a black beard.\
\
He taught us all about Pseudocode, sorting algorithms, the fetch execute cycle, and everything else you might imagine a computer science course consisting of. I still remember the months spent working on \'d2number processes\'d3 - the various ways computers achieve arithmetic using binary (there are all sorts of shortcuts and tricks that I won\'d5t bore you with - looking back as an adult it\'d5s quite interesting - but as a teenager it was sopporrifically boring). It didn\'d5t take us long to discover that Mr Jackson would also talk at length about Star Trek if you gave him half a chance.\
\
There are many more stories to tell about Mr Jackson, and the collection of oddball characters in the computer science class - I\'d5ll save them for a later chapter about my college experience. For now, I really want to get back to the computers we were using.\
\
While working through the course at college, we could all see that the PC was going to be the future. It had already won in the business world - with offices all over the world running Wordstar, Wordperfect, and Lotus 123. The fact that we were learning to program PCs said a lot - a couple of years before, students had been learning to program mainframes and mini computers running Fortran, Lisp, and Cobol.\
\
I needed a PC at home. Actually - scratch that - I didn\'d5t *need* a PC at home - I *wanted* a PC at home. A very different thing. I reasoned with myself that I wanted the PC in order to help me write my A-Level computer science project. We had a huge programming assignment - to build a piece of software - and the only way I would be able to do it without access to a PC at home would be to spend hours in the computer science classroom outside of lesson times.\
\
It just so happened that I had seen something at the Computer Shopper show in London that was going to solve my problem - a beige box that could be plugged into an Atari ST to turn it into a PC, for a fraction of the cost of a PC. It still cost a significant amount of money though, and I didn\'d5t have a source of income (cue poor student music on a violin).\
\
I\'d5ll write about my first job elsewhere - suffice to say that in-between my first and second years at college I worked for the family business - a quarry - sweeping floors, shovelling rubbish, and clearing up behind people for six weeks. The money earned in those six weeks bought me the box to plug into the computer at home. I finally had a PC!\
\
I can still remember inviting Michael round, to teach me how to do things in DOS. The Atari had a graphical user interface - folders looked like folders - you could drag things around to re-arrange them. DOS has a friendly little cursor, blinking away on a blank screen, waiting for you to type commands. It was a step backwards, but for some reason I liked that it had a higher bar to entry. I wonder if that\'d5s why I have such an affinity with Linux these days?\
\
The Atari - along with the beige box that turned it into a PC (called a \'d2Supercharger\'d3, for those interested), saw me through the rest of the computer science course. The programming project I eventually wrote for the exam coursework became an example project for future years, both printed out, and given out to go through in classroom sessions. It wasn\'d5t brilliant, but it was clean, tidy code and it was well documented. Also - I had built something useful, unlike a lot of my classmates - an order processing system for the family business.\
\
I saw Mr Jackson a year or so later, and he commented that my project was good for many reasons - both because it was so well written, but also because there were better ways of doing so many things - opportunities to improve it. I didn\'d5t know if I was happy or crestfallen about that.}