{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 While sitting in the office one Friday afternoon in early 2000, a rumour flew around the staff that the company was in trouble. Nobody could confirm anything, which of course made everything worse. I remember going home that weekend, and wondering what I would do if the company failed - I had a mortgage - I had bought my own flat only a few months previously.\
\
Over the course of the weekend I had an idea. If the company was about to go under, why not jump before I went down with it, and go freelance? It might actually be a win-win, because the company could hire me back as a contractor if they wanted to, but not have me on the books. In the meantime, I could have a proper crack at doing web development for some design agencies.\
\
I talked to the girl I worked with on the phone, and she thought it was a great idea. She also wanted in - she wanted to jump ship with me. I spent the Saturday night researching the legal side of partnerships, and emailing friends to see who might lend us the money.\
\
With money behind us, and a partnership agreement signed, we returned to work on the Monday morning, and handed our notice in. The managing director was furious, and asked me to leave the building immediately. While walking back to my apartment, half-way across town, my mobile phone rang. It was my boss.\
\
\'d2I\'d5ve calmed down a bit now.\'d3\
\
Over the next few minutes, we discussed how we might work together going forwards, and how this might actually benefit both of us. It was all a bit surreal really.\
\
Of course nothing ever happens the way you might like. A few weeks later no money had appeared in the bank, and I ended up going to visit the citizens advice bureau - a free legal advice facility run by most local authorities. Apparently this was a really, really bad thing to do, because it turned the screw on the relationship between myself and my ex-boss, and pretty much guaranteed that we would get no work from them going forwards.\
\
We had fifteen thousand in the bank, and were starting from zero. What could possibly go wrong?\
\
It turns out pretty much everything. Back in 2000, the web design business hadn\'d5t really caught fire yet - so we found ourselves visiting design houses and printing companies, trying to convince them that the internet was coming, and they really needed to use us. It didn\'d5t work at all.\
\
One glimmer of hope appeared in the shape of a printing company a few hundred yards from where we had worked previously. They could see the potential of getting involved in web design, and had all the design talent already - but more importantly they needed a database to be built to run their business on. They talked a lot, and never actually went ahead with anything.\
\
We built a software solution for a university graduate setting up a translation business, and wrote some forms for a healthcare project - through a local printing company that had no web skills - but other than that, it was very slim pickings.\
\
We survived for about four months - through the autumn and winter of 2000, into 2001, before calling it a day. Of course at the same time I had met a girl - Wendy - and was becoming increasingly distracted by spending time with her. We had got engaged in the late autumn, and were talking about moving in together. Given my situation, it made more sense to look for a job near her, than to move anywhere else.\
\
There\'d5s a story about the engagement ring actually. Wendy had come over to visit me for the weekend - we had been engaged for a week - and we went out to look at rings. Our \'d2real\'d3 engagement ring was a hematite ring bought while walking in the Lake District - 99p from a gift shop. The real thing cost several hundred pounds, and unbeknown to Wendy put my bank account into overdraft for a few days. Thankfully I managed to get hold of the bank while walking away from the jewellers, and warned them in advance.\
\
After deciding to stop the whole freelance/partnership thing, I stayed for a long weekend at Wendy\'d5s house, wrote= my CV, and applied to some job agencies. By the Monday evening I had two interviews lined up - one for the Tuesday morning just outside the town she lived, and another for later in the week at a huge Japanese company.\
\
The interview the next morning is told elsewhere. Suffice to say I\'d5m still working there now, so it must have gone quite well. I remember calling the agent back to cancel the second interview though (because I had already accepted the first job), and them going ever so slightly mad. Of course I knew why - they were obviously going to get a fee for delivering an interview candidate, no matter what happened. I had essentially cost the agency money.}