{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 During the late 1980s, my parents became interested in music keyboards. How they became interested in them is perhaps one of the most unlikely stories you're likely to hear.\
\
You see - throughout the late 1980s my brother competed in schoolboy motocross. This mostly entailed getting up early on a Sunday morning, and standing in the rain throughout the day, watching him ride round a muddy track in circles until we went home again. There was of course more to it than that, but to my twelve year old eyes, that was about the size of it.\
\
My parents made friends with numerous other parents, who also stood in the rain each Sunday watching their children ride round and round in circles - or in the case of one particularly memorable Dad, run after his son for several miles every Sunday, repeatedly putting him back on the bike. My Mum and one friend in particular took to sitting in the car and talking for seven or eight hours every Sunday. I have no idea what they talked about. They are still friends now - thirty years on - and still talk on the phone for hours. What DO women talk about on the phone?\
\
Over the time the friendship between our families grew, and we invited each other for dinner - and that's how we ended up sitting in their back room one Saturday night, messing around on their electric organ (which sounds perverted, thinking about it). Let's call it a multi-keyboard-musical-instrument instead.\
\
I'm not quite sure how the story played out, but our friends bought a new music keyboard - the latest thing that Yamaha made at the time - meaning the old one in their back room was available for anybody with a suitable trailer - cough, a motocross bike trailer - to take away. And that's how it ended up in our back room instead.\
\
Have you ever seen an electric organ? (stop laughing). It was mostly made from wood, had two keyboards, and a row of buttons to simulate different instruments across the facia above. The rather odd thing about the switches was that they didn't really have much effect - a Cello, Violin, Piano, Electric Guitar, and Xylophone all sounded pretty much like they came from the soundtrack of a 1970s porn film - especially so when you switched on the drum machine, which was liable to get pensioners for miles out of their seats, such was it's astounding recreation of anything Glen Miller might have written.\
\
Unfortunately we knew nothing about playing music, or musical instruments - so quite often we ended up sounding like Glen Miller during his plane crash, instead of with a full orchestra in front of an appreciative audience. That didn't stop us though - because it turns out you don't really need talent if you have enough technology available.\
\
Within months the hulking electric organ had been moved to my grandparents house, from where it would eventually become firewood, to be replaced by the same model of keyboard our friends had bought. As a family we attended a number of pre-sales events run by the local music superstore, and saw immensely talented people take to the stage that made the keyboards sound amazing. Unfortunately we were still somewhat lacking in the talent department, but we made up for it with enthusiasm, and blind optimism.\
\
Oh the hours I spent waiting for my parents in music shops. Perhaps the most memorable was Duckson and Pinker in Swindon. Downstairs was a typical music shop full of instruments - upstairs was an Aladdin's cave of sheet music, and classical music albums. As far as I can recall, there were two members of staff upstairs - an elderly man who always dressed very smartly, and a tooth lady with long straight hair and very thick glasses. I never spoke to either of them. The elderly man seemed to be in charge of shelves full of audiophile Hi-Fi separates - amplifiers, pre-amplifiers, record decks, and so on. There were always huge posters of the classical music stars of the day in clip-frames on the walls - Julian Lloyd Webber sticks in my memory for some reason - along with Herbert von Karajan.\
\
The music keyboard demonstrations typically took place in hired out community centres and dance halls in nearby towns. It was quite an event - going out for the evening on the premise of enjoying a performance by a professional musician, when in reality you were being lined up for a sales and marketing hit.\
\
I remember one demonstration in particular. One of the team from Japan had been flown over by Yamaha to demonstrate a new keyboard. His name was Max Takano - he was young, incredibly talented, and he neither understood, or spoke a word of English. We took my elderly grandfather with us for the night out, and sat in wonder at the skill and spectacle of it all. Then, while leaving the auditorium at the end, my Grandfather - who had fought in the Eighth Army during the second world war, stood up, straightened his coat, and asked very loudly among the sea of people "What did you reckon to that Nip then?"\
\
Over the course of several years we kept several music shops afloat. We progressed from smaller Yamaha music keyboards, to ever more impressive ones. The final, and most ridiculous was called the HX-1. If you've never seen one, all you have to do is watch the movie "The Running Man" - early in the movie they keyboard appears in a projection of what the world might be like a few decades into the future. To be honest, it WAS impressive. It looked like the result of an illicit affair between the Space Shuttle, and a Japanese sports car - festooned with lights, buttons, and angular slabs of grey plastic. It also sounded incredible. There was only one problem - we did not.\
\
You remember I mentioned about technology perhaps filling the shortfall between hopes and reality though? Dad came home from work one Friday night with a pile of magazines in his hands. He had been reading them at work, and had an idea.\
\
"Do you want to come to Evesham with me tomorrow?"\
\
"Why?"\
\
"I'm going to buy a new computer - to plug into the music keyboard."\
\
He handed me a magazine, which had a computer called an "Atari ST" on the cover.}