{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Back in the early days of the internet, if you signed up for a service such as Compuserve, or America Online, not only would you be charged a monthly membership fee, you would also pay for the cost of the phone call to connect to their service. Over time those costs were folded into the membership fees, but it was still limiting - the world wide web appeared, and they acted as gatekeepers.\
\
The solution to all of this was the \'d2Internet Service Provider\'d3 - rather than connect to a walled garden service such as Compuserve, and then leave to connect to the World Wide Web, or to fetch your email with a client such as Eudora, an Internet Service Provider just sold you a connection to the internet - usually for an amount per month, on a phone number that carried no further charges.\
\
This was still in the age of modems, remember, where you took over the phone line completely when connecting to the internet. While you were online, nobody could call you - which I suppose was a blessing if you were avoiding calls from anybody in particular.\
\
Shortly after signing up with an internet service provider at home, I received a marketing call from them, offering a quantity of webspace as part of the package. I had no idea what I might need webspace for, and joked with the sales person about it - they explained that more and more people were building their own pages on the world wide web - that it was becoming \'d2a thing\'d3. I declined the offer, still laughing, and thought no more about it.\
\
Until a few days later.\
\
While noodling around on the internet one evening, the idea of having my own page had obviously been churning around at the back of my mind, and I followed my nose until I discovered a site called \'d2Geocities\'d3 where you could build your own page. Sure, it would be filled with advertising, and other junk, but most of the page was yours to do what you wanted with.\
\
I instantly imagined myself as an elite hacker (that only just knew how to switch a computer on), and chose the name \'d2toxicshock\'d3. I thought myself tremendously clever for a few evenings - beavering away at building a page, and learning enough HTML to build a few pages out. I then emailed a few friends, sending them the URL - expecting them to be stunned with my virtuoso display. Suffice to say nobody replied.\
\
It got me thinking though - about what I might build on the web if I did it properly. I sat up again one night, and built out a page on the free webspace now being given away by the web service provider. I thought it might be fun to create an online magazine website of sorts - filled with all my thoughts about things. It would all be static content, but I could add more pages and upload to it over time. I called it \'d2Thought Cafe\'d3.\
\
The static page sat there for months, and I told nobody about it. I still have a copy of it on a ZIP disk somewhere - I should really dig it out, and store it for prosperity.\
\
Perhaps a year later - after moving into my own apartment, I was at a loose end one evening, and realised I could write programming that would in turn generate the pages of a website. I tried it out - building myself a database with a table for stories, and the programming to loop through them, and build out pages for each story, and an index page. It worked!\
\
Over the course of a weekend I built it out further, adding authors, and content categories, and announced it to anybody I knew - inviting them to submit content. The resulting pages went online at some point in 1999, still called \'d2ThoughtCafe\'d3. The crazy thing? People browsing the world wide web started to discover it - either by chance, or word of mouth, and a steady trickle of email started to arrive - people sending their writing in to be showcased on the site.\
\
You have to remember this was a long time before blogs existed. The social internet wasn\'d5t even a vague idea. I was just making a magazine website.\
\
I would copy people\'d5s writing into the database, fill out their author details, and run the program - which would spit all the pages out - with author pages, bibliographies, article pages, and so on. I thought myself tremendously clever, but going through the daily grind of entering new content for everybody, and re-building the website was a huge bind. There had to be a better way.\
\
I discovered the \'d2better way\'d3 while flicking through a magazine at work. Microsoft had released a new version of their web server software that supported running Visual Basic code to generate webpages. It just so happened that I had been using Visual Basic at work, and the company database was written with the same database engine that the new webserver used.\
\
I spent the next several months building a new ThoughtCafe website - one where people could register themselves as members, file their own pieces, and comment on each other\'d5s writing. Although quiet at first, the new website picked up momentum over the course of several months until I was regularly crashing the webserver. It turned out that although Microsoft were pretty good at building desktop operating systems, they were hopeless at building server operating systems - as evidenced by the daily crashes under the load of perhaps a hundred people.\
\
Despite the instability, the website grew like a weed. Within a few months there were a thousand members, and I had stopped writing anything myself. I spent my time developing new features, babysitting disputes between members, and trying to improve what was already there. Around the same time I met a girl, and she started a monthly newsletter for the members - as intoxicated as I was in the community we had accidentally created. The newsletter showcased the most popular writing of the last month, introduced new authors, and included articles about the craft of writing. We even had a few interviews along the way.\
\
At some point in perhaps 2001, the instability problems finally caused me to snap. A curious mixture of technologies known as \'d2LAMP\'d3 were rapidly becoming the standard for web development, so I ordered a stack of books from Amazon to learn everything I could.\
\
LAMP was an acronym - standing for Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP. Linux was the server operating system, Apache the webserver, MySQL the database server, and PHP the programming language that the webserver could use to turn static pages into dynamic ones.\
\
The O\'d5Reilly books arrived through the post a few days later, and I became a recluse for a while - building out all the things you expect to see in websites - registration pages, login pages, email confirmations, and so on. It\'d5s worth talking a little about the O\'d5Reilly books. Back in the early days of the world wide web, there was little or no documentation available, because it was developing so fast, but the time a book came out it would be obsolete. A company called O\'d5Reilly decided to correct this, and started printing a series of huge tomes that covered each of the emerging technologies and platforms - often in exhaustive detail. They had no problem with re-issuing the books repeatedly, year on year - with updates to cover any changes along the way. The books were all white, and had pen-and-ink illustrations on the covers - usually of animals, but not always. I remember one with a koala bear, another with a platypus, and another with a cowboy on a rearing horse.\
\
After several months of development alongside babysitting the old website, I migrated everybody\'d5s writing over, emailed out their passwords, and the new site appeared on the internet for the first time at some point early in the summer of 2001. It flew, it was stable, everybody loved it, and the membership growth went off the chart. Within weeks the site was features in a magazine, and schools started signing pupils up to get feedback on their writing.\
\
It was a heady time - and perhaps the end of a period of innocence for the world wide web. A few months after launch - with several thousand people logging in each day - trouble started to brew. Some of the authors had begun fighting in the forums (oh yes, I forgot - I built forums into the new site too - and blogs, which were the new \'d2thing\'d3 that every site had to have).\
\
After some investigation, we discovered what was going on, and it was kind of heartbreaking. People were joining with several accounts, starting arguments with themselves, and then stoking the fires they started. I presented the evidence - in public on the site - and name and shamed several of the people involved. One of them held his hands up, and claimed he had been performing a social experiment - researching human behaviour. I banned him, and he re-joined minutes later from the same IP address.\
\
The site continued to run for the next four or five months, with sporadic outbreaks of trouble, and then one day I sat doing some housekeeping in the back end of the site, looked across at my other half, sat next to me with her laptop, and said \'d2this isn\'d5t fun any more, is it\'d3.\
\
We announced the closure of the site a week later.\
\
I don\'d5t regret building ThoughtCafe at all. It taught me a lot about building websites, and about human nature. Sure, some of the lessons were unpleasant, but they were in the minority. In some ways the site was \'d2of it\'d5s time\'d3 too - blogs had emerged, along with a new site in the US called \'d2The Facebook\'d3, another called \'d2LiveJournal\'d3, and another called \'d2MySpace\'d3 that everybody was flocking to. It didn\'d5t take long for community sites such as forums, and discussion boards to vanish from the world wide web entirely - along with more esoteric internet platforms such as usenet, and IRC.\
\
Of course it will surprise nobody that the knowledge gained from building ThoughtCafe was folded straight into another project - a blog solution. Rather than run anything, I wrote the code to power a blog, and gave it away as \'d2Open Source\'d3. It got downloaded a quarter of a million times. Another story for another day.}