{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The junior school that you walked through to reach the infant school was built in the post war years, and very much resembled a collection of military buildings - long, thin sheds subdivided into classrooms, with high windows - preventing children from seeing out to the playground. The buildings bordered the playground on adjacent sides, and were later partnered by a hall, and further classrooms in the 1960s.\
\
The classrooms were warm in the summer, and cold in winter - heated by post war plumbing that rarely worked - huge cast-iron radiators lined the walls, and would break your kneecaps if you caught them while walking past.\
\
Between the classrooms, long tiled corridors led out to the playground, and to the boys and girls bathrooms. The corridors were lined with benches, and coat hooks - usually festooned with hundreds of coats, scarves, gloves, and hats. We were supposed to have an assigned peg in the hallway, but one or two children would entirely disregard that plan.\
\
My first teacher in junior school was called Mr Hannant. He was charming, funny, and a favourite with all the mums at the school gates. He was fairly short, stocky, sported an impressive moustache, and neat mop of black hair. He decorated his classroom with various shapes made from cut and folded paper - octohedrons, decahedrons, dodecahedrons, and so on. Looking back, it must have taken him hours to make them all.\
\
Mr Hannant would sit on his desk to tell stories for the last half-hour of each day - swinging his legs as he read. I remember him reading 101 Dalmations one term, and use all becoming swept up in the story - breathlessly telling our parents about each day's adventure after the bell rang.\
\
At the end of each day, the teachers would walk their class out to the school gates, where parents waited for their arrival. For many of the parents, those few minutes were their only chance of social interaction during the week - and boy did they take advantage of it. Every afternoon you would find endless children hanging from their Mum or Dad's sleeve, asking if they were going home yet.\
\
"Soon".\
\
Mr Hannant inspired all sorts of wonder in us at 7 years old. In the school hall there were a number of pieces of gymnastics apparatus that could be wheeled along tracks in the ceiling for PE lessons - I can still remember watching him climb a rope hand-over-hand - that single act lifted him up alongside Superman.\
\
Outside of school, Mr Hannant also presented the early morning show on the local radio station. One of our school trips took us to visit the station, and meet the various presenters. A new student that had just started at the station gave us all a photo of him jumping off the roof - his name was Timmy Mallet, and he would go on to become a stalwart of childrens television years later. He now lives about ten miles from me - it's funny how life works out.\
\
The only time we spent apart from our teacher at Junior school was to go and sing in the school choir. You had two choices with regard to the school choir - you either went to choir, or you went to choir. Not really much of a choice then. Looking back, your time with the music teacher was a chance for teachers to go and get a coffee, and a break from their class for a few minutes - except Mr Hannant invariably joined us in the hall to sing along with us all.\
\
The Music Teacher was a stalwart of music hall theatre called Mrs Coates. It seemed she had starred on the stage at some point earlier in her career, and was somehow bitter about now teaching music to children who either could not, or would not sing to a level she was happy with. She had long dark hair, and enormous breasts. Even at 7 years old I knew she had enormous breasts, and it's not something I typically notice. She would bark at us all to "Sit up straight, smile, and sound your esses!", while playing the upright piano in the corner of the hall like a dimented machine gunner.\
\
Along with Mrs Coates, and Mr Hannant, we learned to sing all manner of songs that generations of school children before us had also learned - standards, ballads, and unfortunately a number of church prescribed songs trumpeting God's might, and how our soldiers would defeat everybody who questioned him. Those songs were eventually banned.\
\
I followed my brother through the junior school - he was three years ahead of me, meaning that we crossed paths for one year. I still remember the day I had forgotten my PE kit, so had to visit his classroom and ask if I might borrow his. I arrived at his teacher's desk - an imposing tyrant called Mr Lock - and only then noticed that not only my trousers on inside out, they were also on backwards. Thankfully Mr Lock said nothing.\
\
As far as I recall, we did PE in our underwear if indoors - which would probably get schools shut down these days. The hall would be transformed into a gymnasium, with ropes, rings, a trapese, a vaulting horse, and all manner of crash mats. I remember being envious of the children that could climb the ropes up to the ceiling - I was hopeless at it.\
\
The hall was also used for "Country Dancing" - a regular activity where guided dances were dictated from a tape player on a trolley - calling out rote moves over and over again. Although we all said we hated it, we secretly enjoyed it, and always put in as much effort as possible. I can still remember a sequence of steps called a "do-se-do" to this day.\
\
What else do I remember about my time at Junior school? Oh yes - the desks! The desks were wooden, and half of the surface folded, to expose a storage drawer underneath. The drawer under my desk typically contained a few books, my handwriting pen (which had to be earned), and a star wars figure. Most children had a toy car, or some other small thing. The desks all had an ink-well in the far corner too - a throwback from an earlier time. Thankfully by the time I went to school, rollerball pens had become the norm. It's worth noting that we were not allowed to use biros - only school issued "handwriting pens".\
\
My Mum kept many of my school exercise books, and gave them to me when I moved away from home. They are pretty entertaining. One book is titled "Weekend News", with room on each page for a picture, and a sentence of writing. Almost every weekend is filled with a total and utter work of fiction - telling stories of things that almost certainly never happened. One page in particular is telling though - a very detailed account of watching a Godzilla movie on TV, with a spectacular scene drawn above. The school project work books didn't always related facts accurately either - according to me, the Lancaster Bomber had a range of about five miles. That's going to be quite limiting, isn't it - only being able to bomb the enemy when they get within eye poking distance...\
\
My memories of Junior school are almost all positive. I moved from Mr Hannant to Miss Hughes, Mr Lock, and then Miss Edge before leaving for secondary school. I remember some days with particular affection - like the day Miss Hughes wheeled the school television into the classroom for us all to watch the first launch of the Space Shuttle - or the day Mrs Ellis returned to teach us for one day - or the times Miss Edge read us fantastical stories while perched on the benches at the end of her classroom.\
\
Miss Edge was a newly qualified student teacher, who taught me during my final year of junior school. She drove a Citroen 2CV, which she parked at the end of the school playground. She had a shock of red frizzy hair, was slender in build, and typically wore flowing dresses covered in Laura Ashley flower patterns. She may as well have been called "Mrs Lovely". A favourite memory is of her inventing math questions involving numbers of kangaroo burgers, or other such made-up foods.\
\
Only recently I discovered that Mr Lock and Miss Edge eventually got married. This kind of stunned me, because you couldn't imagine two people more different than each other. Mr Lock was a tall, imposing, frightening teacher. He terrified my brother, and caused a visit by my parents to visit the headmaster about his teaching methods (fear, intimidation, and cruelty, if my brother was to be believed). Here's the thing though - my brother is the only person I've ever heard tell such stories about him.\
\
I met Mr Lock years later, driving the bus to college. He smiled, but didn's say anything. I often wonder why he left teaching, and became a bus driver - was my brother right? Or had he finally had enough of pulling crayons from children's noses ?\
\
Throughout junior school my best friends were Jamie Blackwell, and Claire Goodman. Both Jamie and Claire were the children of local police officers - it may surprise you to learn that this only just occurred to me. Claire lived across the road from me, and had a little sister called Anna. She insisted her real name was \'d2Fred\'d3, but her own family all called her \'d2Sid\'d3. I\'d5ve never actually questioned why, or even thought to question why - I guess when you\'d5re young you just take information on-board without really questioning it.\
\
At the end of junior school, Claire went to a different secondary school than me, so we almost became strangers overnight - it\'d5s funny how that happens. Where we had spent countless evenings and summers in each other\'d5s company, suddenly we were reduced to occasional waves if we left the house at the same time as each other. Our favourite dinner lady on the school playground called us \'d2you lovebirds\'d3 on more than one occasion - causing burning red faces, and more than a few awkward moments.\
\
Dinner ladies. Who remembers the ladies that watched over the playground at lunchtime? In the world I grew up in, dinner ladies came out of some kind of \'d2dinner lady mold\'d3 - complete with a large wool coat, sheep skin lined boots, and a small upset child attached to at least one hand as they wandered through the sea of children like a first world war battleship. They always seemed to be sturdy, yet softly spoken women of a certain age - sometimes sporting the type of battleship hairdo I had only previously seen at the bingo hall. My favourite dinner lady was called \'d2Mrs Daily\'d3 (or Daley - I\'d5m not sure of the spelling). She always had a kind word, and would seemingly spot trouble entire minutes before it actually occurred. Her hair was always pulled up into a bun, with a long fringe swept neatly to one side with hair-grips. She always wore a quilted three-quarter length coat, and huge mittens - at least in my memory.\
\
I don\'d5t really remember my last day at junior school - or infant school for that matter. I\'d5m not really sure why. All I do remember is the tremendous excitement felt throughout the class when the summer holidays approached. I also remember my year six teacher crying on the last day as she said goodbye to us all.}