{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 I grew up in Carterton - a small town in the Cotswolds, a few miles from Oxford. Carterton had been founded by a farmer called Carter a couple of hundred years before, and had grown over time. It was an \'d2in-between\'d3 place. Witney, famous for wool and blankets was a little way away, and the various Wychwood villages - the inspiration for \'d2The Shire\'d3 in Tolkien\'d5s books - a few miles in the other direction.\
\
When you tell somebody you\'d5re from Carterton, they stare at you blankly. Then you tell them it\'d5s near Brize Norton, and a flicker of recognition appears on their face.\
\
You see, Carterton is dominated by a huge air base called \'d2RAF Brize Norton\'d3. Brize Norton is a small village a mile from Carterton - that touches the end of the runways. If you visit the air base though, you visit Carterton. There\'d5s a simple reason for it too. When the air base was built, there was already an \'d2RAF Cardington\'d3 elsewhere in the country - and on the radio \'d2RAF Carterton\'d3 sounded far too similar - so they named the base after the tiny nearby hamlet of Brize Norton instead.\
\
RAF Brize Norton is now the biggest military transport base in Europe. It also manages most of the military air traffic for western europe, I believe - I discovered this when I went with our next door neighbour to get a weather report before a flight in his training aircraft. We got into a lift at ground level, men-in-black style, and came out onto a room not unlike the room in Wargames - with projections of most of Europe on the screens, and vector plotters printing out huge supercomputer projections of weather systems.\
\
As you might imagine, life in Carterton was dominated by the air base. During the late 1970s and 1980s, the base was shared by both the Royal Air Force, and the United States Air Force - who kept row upon row of B-52s lined up, ready to go.\
\
If you have no idea what a B-52 is, think of a plane about the size of a 747, but with 8 engines instead of 4, several times louder, and designed to carpet bomb anything in sight. We got used to them taking off and landing - but visitors to the house would recoil in horror when the windows shook, and pictures rattled on the wall.\
\
\'d2What on earth is that noise?\'d3\
\
\'d2What noise?\'d3\
\
Of course along with the United States Air Force came a small army of support personnel and their families. Suddenly there were American children living in our street - they talked funny, and had very different values than us. We all got along though - in the way kids do - and loved their Dad\'d5s cars. One man at the end of the road flew his Triumph Spitfire over from the US - it had a plaque on the dashboard from a visit to Bonneville at some point during it\'d5s life. It never occurred to me that his car had been imported into the US from the UK in the first place. Several of the US servicemen had Pontiac Trans-Ams, which you could feel approaching before you heard or saw them.\
\
We loved playing with the American children, but most of them lived within the confines of the air base. Some families were forward thinking, and put their kids into schools in the town, but most went to the \'d2on base\'d3 school. The base also got a huge investment from the USAF - building a bowling alley, a cinema, a nightclub, a supermarket full of American food, and countless other amenities that we all loved visiting as children. Unfortunately that all stopped years later when security was tightened beyond belief.\
\
The air base became the scene of so many childhood adventures though - I couldn\'d5t possibly count the number of bike rides we went on with friends around the outside of the base. We all knew exactly the right places to go to watch aircraft take off and land - and would sit in the grass, patiently waiting for them to pass overhead. We knew most of the VC-10s, many of the C-130 Hercules, and quite a few of the B-52s.\
\
I remember one day at Primary School a flying officer from RAF Brize Norton visited our class to talk about his job. He wore his full flight suit, and we were all tremendously impressed with him. He had a full-face oxygen kit with him - that went under a flight helmet, and made you look a bit like Darth Vader - he called it a \'d2Darth Vader\'d3 suit himself, and he wanted a volunteer to try it on. All the usual confident kids threw their hands up, and leaned out of their chairs - I almost didn\'d5t bother because I knew I wouldn\'d5t be picked - I was never picked. And he picked me. Looking back, his choosing me had a huge impact, because whenever I need to pick kids these days, I always try to choose the kid that might otherwise not be picked. I remember looking out over the class full of amazed children, and hearing my breath in my ears from the oxygen system. I really WAS Darth Vader for a few moments. I was also scared to death.\
\
Eventually the United States pulled out of many of the UK bases, and retreated homewards - I suppose as the temperature with Russia cooled. Suddenly the town became much more quiet than it had been, and some of the facilities were closed - not that we were allowed to use them any more.\
\
Just thinking back, there were some really odd thing that happened over the years too - like the time Mikhail Gorbachev and his wife visited the UK in the late 1980s. The roads they would be travelling on were re-surfaced overnight, the night before they arrived. Raisa - Mrs Gorbachev - visited my secondary school. The tarmac was still wet on the way into school that morning - and no roads were fixed for years afterwards - the entire budget had obviously been blown to pieces in one night.\
\
I\'d5m always reminded of a joke I heard - that the Queen thinks the world smells of wet paint.\
\
The last time I visited the base was for a children\'d5s birthday party at the swimming pool - for my nephew\'d5s birthday. I still remember queueing at the gate with the other parents and children, being questioned by several guards with loaded rifles. Security gone mad.}