{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 My arrival at my new employer could be described best as accidentally falling from a moving car, and landing completely unscathed, on your feet.\
\
A few short days ago I had been watching the world go by from the window of a portacabin in a hell hole. I now had my own desk, my own computer, my own chair, my own stapler, my own pens, pencils, ruler, pen holder - you name it.\
\
While admiring all my new toys, I remember the middle-aged man sitting directly in front of me spinning around in his office chair, and breaking the ice as naturally as most other people might breathe.\
\
\'d2Right then young John. Is it John or Jonathan?\'d3\
\
\'d2I don\'d5t mind.\'d3\
\
\'d2Tea or coffee?\'d3\
\
\'d2Oh! Coffee please\'d3\
\
\'d2If you come with me, I can show you where everything is, and I\'d5ll introduce you to some of the useless rabble. They\'d5re less use than a chocolate fireguard, you know\'d3.\
\
And so was my introduction to the world of Dave Lines, conservatory salesman, draghtsman, and harmless bullshitter extraordinaire. He stood about 5\uc0\u8242  8\u8243  tall, was in his early 60s, a little portly, with 60s style horn rimmed glasses, and a tangle of curly black hair combed into a curl perched high atop his forehead. If anybody looked like a mischievous character from a childrens comic, he did.\
\
While we made coffee in the kitchen area, he told me how he had been poached from another construction company where he had been in charge of sales \'d0 and was now senior to one of the other salesman who he had worked for many years previously \'d0 Jack Godwin, geriatric World War 2 fighter ace (or at least that was the impression Jack liked to project).\
\
The ill feeling between Dave and Jack was my earliest introduction to office politics, and the concept that some people didn\'d5t so much want to get on with one another, as actively want to set fire to one another if given the chance. I was oblivious to it at this early stage in my education \'d0 it would take many apparently unprovoked slanging matches between fellow colleagues before I started to sense the warning signs and retreat to a safe distance.\
\
Apparently women are far better at sensing these things than men.\
\
It\'d5s amazing how much you can find out about somebody while helping them make a round of teas and coffees. It turned out Mr. Lines (everybody called him \'d2Mr Lines\'d3, apart from the boss, who called him by his first name) had been a radar technician on HMS Ark Royal during the 1960s. He hinted at all manner of adventures while serving in the Navy all over the world.\
\
Perhaps his favourite claim was that had once been a test pilot in a knocking shop. I often couldn\'d5t figure out if athe stories Dave told were the truth or not.\
\
The first desk on the way back through the office was the company secretary and book keeper.\
\
\'d2This is the lovely Sonia. She pays us adoring staff and we do anything she asks us to. Isn\'d5t that right?\'d3\
\
\'d2Hello Jonathan \'d0 nice to finally meet you! we heard there was a young lad starting that was a whiz with the computers. Actually, do you know anything about Wordstar?\'d3\
\
I peered at her screen with an interested look. In reality, all I actually knew about WordStar was that it was a very famous word processor I had never seen, and it was chiefly famous because it used key combinations not used by any other piece of software in the known universe.\
\
\'d2I can\'d5t remember how to save\'d3\
\
Another voice drifted up the office \'d2press F2\'d3 (thank god \'d0 I had no idea). Either Wordstar or Wordperfect - I don\'d5t remember which - was famous because the key combination for print, and the key combination for \'d2exit without saving\'d3 were almost identical.\
\
Sonia was in her early 50s, and immaculately turned out. Her hair seemed to have come from a Nicky Clarke brochure, and had perhaps two entire cans of hairspray reinforcing it\'d5s just-so look. Later in the week when she would appear at the end of the day from the rest rooms wearing lycra leggins, a running club t-shirt, and running shoes. For a moment I found myself admiring her in the way young men tend to when faced with such a sight.\
\
Sonia took tea with one sugar. I knew I would forget, but at least tried to sound like I was going to remember.\
\
Mr Lines reminded me at a volume the entire office could hear that Sonia was the most important person to be nice to, on account of her paying our wages. One guy grinned as he walked past, trying to look busy.\
\
Next up was a bubbly looking girl introduced as Dave\'d5s assistant.\
\
\'d2No I\'d5m bloody not you old bugger!\'d3\
\
She then laughed in a high pitch whoop - sounding not entirely dissimilar to a U-Boat dive claxon. This was Angie \'d0 happiest, funniest, and perhaps the most optimistic person I would meet for years to come. Angie was larger than life in more ways than one \'d0 voluptuous, loud, and apparently very good at producing offspring. She had photos of three children of varying ages stuck on the wall next to her desk.\
\
\'d2Oooo \'d0 thankyou for the drink \'d0 you got it right too!\'d3\
\
\'d2He didn\'d5t make it, I did, and you\'d5re lucky I did \'d0 get on with your work!\'d3\
\
Dave liked to think he was Angie\'d5s boss, when in reality she just took overflow work from him on top of her own work. In his previous job he had been an executive in a much larger company, and given the era of the earlier part of his career (the Jurassic), Dave didn\'d5t always see women as equals. If there was a position free within the office for \'d2male chauvenist pig\'d3, he was in the lead by quite some distance. He wasn\'d5t nasty, or mean spirited - he just came from a different generation entirely, when the world had been a very different place.\
\
The little chap that had bustled past earlier now reappeared and blocked our continued route through the office. Before he even said a word you could tell he thought he was terrifically funny, astoundingly good looking, and remarkably clever. Call it an air of confidence \'d0 or call it being a born wanker. Probably not the best first impression to have of somebody \'d0 and totally wrong as it turned out.\
\
I can remember his introduction like it was yesterday.\
\
\'d2Hello Jonathan, I\'d5m Dave, and I\'d5m the Sheriff of Chickensaw County\'d3\
\
He was wearing a toy sheriff\'d5s badge, attached to his pinstrip shirt.\
\
Mr Lines jumped in\'c9 \'d2this is Dave, younger brother of GGL, our \'d4Great and Glorious Leader\'d5\'d3\
\
Dave was 5ft 4ish, stockily built, and took an obvious pride in looking good. I got the feeling that being over 6ft tall was an issue for him somewhere deep in his psyche. His flat-top haircut was worryingly immaculate. I couldn\'d5t help feeling that behind his blow and bluster there was something terrifically insecure about him \'d0 perhaps a need to be liked \'d0 and I couldn\'d5t help liking him. Lots of people didn\'d5t like him, but I did.\
\
I remember the phone on his desk ringing, him picking it up, and shouting \'d2Alright Minnie!\'d3 while pushing his glasses up his nose. I probably started to wonder about the sanity of people working in office at that point.\
\
Dave pointed over to the corner of the room, and a middle aged guy hunched over his desk, his forehead cradled in one hand, and the phone clasped against his ear in the other. He was wearing a grey suit, and looked strangely reminscent of Will Carling.\
\
\'d2That\'d5s Graham \'d0 he\'d5s in charge of the fitters out on the road\'d3\
\
Graham had a childish smile \'d0 a complete contrast from the furrowed brow you might normally see him with. I got the impression that he had the weight of the world on his shoulders.\
\
Graham and Dave\'d5s desks faced each other. Between them there was a huge slotted board attached to the wall with several hundred multi-coloured cards in it. Apparently this was the height of their invention \'d0 their work tracking system \'d0 and the smooth running of the business rested upon it. It was one of the things I would be replacing.\
\
Next up was Steve - the boss - often referred to as \'d2The Great and Glorious Leader\'d3 by Mr Lines.\
\
Steve usually said nothing when voices were raised in th e office. I say \'d2usually\'d3, because there was this one time - when Dave and a fiery co-worker called \'d2Kate\'d3 had a toe-to-toe argument in the middle of one of the offices. I think it was perhaps the only time I ever saw Steve summon anybody to his office.\
\
Steve was difficult to figure out. Early 40s, untidy (as evidenced by the mound of manuals, printouts, brochures, folders, and various pieces of window and conservatory littering his desk), and obviously incredibly intelligent. I would later learn that he arrived before anybody else, and left after everybody else most days. He was divorced, and had two sons at school who lived with their mum. He was stocky like his younger brother, but seemed to have the greater share of the height genes \'d0 standing as tall as me, but with a rugby player build.\
\
Perhaps nudged by our mutual astral travelling accountant friend, he had hired me to help grow the company - to install and network computers on everybody\'d5s desks. To invent software, and in doing so create a competitive advantage that would be jealously guarded as the staff swelled towards 200, and we all learned about being managers.\
\
A little while later in the day - while feeding an endless supply of floppy disks into the computer on my desk, I heard Captain Hook\'d5s laugh drift up the office. I stopped what I was doing and looked up.\
\
A sharp suited, bryl cream haired head was striding purposely through the office, bellowing confident morning greetings to anybody and everybody who made eye contact.\
\
It was Count Dracula. With Dustin Hoffman\'d5s Captain Hook voice, and a gap between his front teeth. Apparently this was what a real, live salesman looked like.\
\
\'d2Aha! What do we have here then ?\'d3\
\
Oh crap. Count Dracula was heading my way.\
\
It turned out his name was David Heasman, and he sold conservatories to unsuspecting garden centre owners up and down the land. He probably drank their blood too. As a first example in my short career of a professional salesman, he was instructive. The crease of his trousers could probably be used as a weapon, as could the shine of his shoes. He was perhaps fifty-something years old, and sported a face bedecked with lines undoubtedly forged by innumerable stories of life on the road. And fake tan.\
\
After shaking hands (his were cold), I politely introduced myself and started retelling the story of my arrival.\
\
I got the impression during our few moments of conversation that he had only heard selected words;\
\
\'d2\'c9. computer\'c9 help\'c9.. .. \'c9\'c9 \'c9. computer.. \'c9\'c9 \'c9.. easier\'c9. \'c9. \'c9 \'c9 help \'c9 \'c9\'c9 \'c9. computer\'d3\
\
\'d2So young John, you\'d5re one of these computer whizzes then ?\'d3\
\
I guessed technology in transylvania is pretty thin on the ground.\
\
\'d2My computer at home isn\'d5t working right at the moment. Do you think you know what might be up with it?\'d3\
\
Classic. Absolutely bloody classic. I had never seen his computer, and he had provided no explanation what so ever about the problem it\'d5s experiencing. I smiled in the most non commital way possible.\
\
\'d2Steve made us start using computers last year. I can\'d5t see them taking off you know \'d0 all they ever do is get in the way, go wrong, and make things take longer. Give me a pocket book every time\'d3\
\
He fished a small spiral bound notebook from the inside pocket of his suit and waved it around in a proud manner. He then opened in at a fresh page, and wrote \'d2see! it works!\'d3.\
\
\'d2See \'d0 this doesn\'d5t need batteries. Works anywhere. Fits in your pocket. Doesn\'d5t take hours to switch on, and never goes wrong\'d3.\
\
\'d2And if I tip my coffee over it you\'d5re in trouble\'d3\
\
\'d2Ha haaaaa\'d3 (the spirit of Hook was never far away when he laughed). A look of condescending smugness envoloped his orange face \'d0 \'d2If I tip my coffee over your computer, you\'d5ll be buggered too\'d3\
\
Fair point. Hopefully he might have gotten electrocuted doing it though.\
\
In these early days among new colleagues I had no idea where the boundaries lay in terms of ignoring such obvious (and common) resistance to change, so agreed with his stance on technology \'d0 at least to his face anyway.\
\
While politely listening to a monologue detailing the life of David Heaseman, international man of mystery, I failed to notice that an impressive looking elderly gentleman in a tweed suit was propped on the edge of Sonia\'d5s desk, busily charming her in the style that Terry Thomas might have.\
\
I didn\'d5t need to be told who it was. This had to be Jack Godwin DFC. He stood smartly upright and straightened his suit jacket before striding imperiously through the office, greeting staff affably along his way with a warm smile, and relaxed wave.\
\
\'d2Morning Jack\'d3\
\
\'d2Good morning Angela\'d3\
\
\'d2Morning Jack!\'d3\
\
\'d2Good morning young David\'d3\
\
Wow. This was some respect. At perhaps seventy years old, he stood 6ft tall, and was immaculately turned out. Whereas Heasman radiated half truths and tomfoolery, Jack had charm, warmth and personality by the bucketload. He also had quite possibly the shiniest bold head and perfectly manicured moustache I had ever seen.\
\
\'d2Good morning young Jonathan \'d0 lovely to meet you\'d3\
\
He knew my name. I was impressed.\
\
I decided his voice would not have been unsuitable for a 1930s BBC news report. RAF English \'d0 clear, with each sentence carefully considered. No ums. Everything about him really was impressive. After demonstrating an incredibly firm/bone crunching handshake, he leaned over my desk conspiratorially.\
\
\'d2You\'d5re doing fine young man \'d0 no need to look so worried\'d3\
\
I smiled back, and listened as he recounted his personal history to me in the way of an extended greeting. Apparently he had fought in the war as a Mosquito pilot in Canada. Something in the back of my mind told me that he might therefore never have seen any action, but I didn\'d5t say a word. I decided he probably lived in the home counties with his jolly hocky sticks wife, drove a lumbering car, and smelled of peppermints.\
\
Presently the two salesmen wandered down to the end office with Steve, and started talking animatedly about a hand drawn graph on the whiteboard.\
\
Dave whispered across to Mr. Lines \'d0 \'d2Hey - he\'d5s not met Beaker yet!\'d3\
\
Dave laughed a sudden shouted stage laugh.\
\
The other Dave stood up, and did his best muppet impersonation.\
\
David was suddenly a bullying 10 year old, picking on some unfortunate salesman who hadn\'d5t arrived in the office yet. It was no wonder he had divorced so young. Apparently Beaker\'d5s real name was Tony.\
\
I sat for a minute, laughing politely as David explained with great enthusiasm how Tony had improbably cartoon like tufts of hair growing from his ears, and talked by tipping his entire head back. My polite laughter was taken as encouragement, and David\'d5s act became ever more exciteable. If he had indeed been 10 years old, he would have thrown up his fizzy pop at any moment.\
\
Sonia leaned round the corner \'d0 \'d2Stop it you lot \'d0 he\'d5s coming!\'d3 \'d0 accompanied by a withering, scowling stare for David.\
\
Into the office walked the living embodiment of a real, breathing muppet. Not quite the larger than life depiction given by the child sat across the room from me, but the likeness was there. His tall, gangling, unsteady gate combined with thick glasses turned him unintentionally into a comic turn.\
\
He waved through the conservatory/office windows to Steve, Jack and the other salesmen, and took two goes to open the door.\
\
Mr Lines got up from his desk and opened the window.\
\
\'d2Lets get a bit of fresh air in here\'d3\
\
Angie was not impressed. She often wore thin tops, and was no doubt aware of the effect the cold air was going to have. She was also certainly aware of letcherous old buggers opening windows.\
\
Mr Lines started signing a song about wind blowing up ladies skirts.\
\
I would later learn that Mr Lines had a song for every eventuality, occaision, or happeneing that could possibly occur. The songs were always \'d2colourful\'d3, no doubt harking from the time he spent in her Majesty\'d5s Royal Navy.\
\
A little while later in the day - while making another round of drinks, I came across an older, bigger version of David \'d0 only with dark hair and more scruffy. He was busily eating a chocolate bar while waiting for the kettle to boil.\
\
\'d2Nice to meet you\'d3\
\
He turned and smiled.\
\
\'d2Bad luck sitting across from my brother\'d3\
\
This, it turns out, was Ian, the middle brother. Perhaps the most academically gifted of the brothers, he turned drawings of buildings into instructions that the craftsmen in the workshop could understand. Cutting lists. Measurements. Plans. It also turned out he was an outstanding squash player, and the only family man (in the traditional sense) of the three brothers.\
\
He discovered I didn\'d5t play squash, which made me somewhat less attractive. I had actually played once with a friend, but nearly killed myself just hitting the damn ball back. Apparently it gets easier \'d0 I never progressed past \'d2this is f*cking impossible\'d3.\
\
\'d2Me and my mate fat bloke play a couple of times a week \'d0 you should come down with us after work\'d3\
\
I smiled, and carried on making the coffees \'d0 and spied the box of chocolate bars.\
\
\'d2Hows does that work then ? How much are they?\'d3\
\
\'d2You just put your money in the tin. I expect it\'d5s all going to be stopped soon though \'d0 our Mum, who\'d5s the cleaner buys the chocolate from the big Sainsbury in town a couple of times a month. The workshop have started dibbing in though and not paying. Tossers.\'d3\
\
Although I had heard of the stereotypical \'d2them and us\'d3 divide that traditionally existed between office and workfloor staff, this was my first real experience of it. White collar and blue collar\'c9 except in this case, the workshop staff wore various combinations of hoodies, jeans, and t-shirts advertising various beer drinking accomplishments.\
\
A tour of the workshop was planned for later in the week apparently. The name \'d2Mr Herring\'d3 was mentioned by several people. Some kind of alpha male pub quiz genius ape.}