{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 One morning while wandering through the streets of Witney on my way to the office, something in my head told me to stop off at the newsagent in Corn Street.\
\
There were two news agents within easy walking distance of the bus stops \'d0 a big chain newsagent at the entrance to the shopping arcade that didn\'d5t open until everybody had gone to work (I never did figure the logic behind that out), and a privately run one just round the corner.\
\
As far as I could tell, the big difference between the two was everything except newspapers and chocolate bars. If you wanted to buy deodorant, toothpaste, stationary, both newsagents had them, but the big one had name brands. The other one had bootlegs of the same stuff. One morning in a bit of a panic I bought their cheap deodorant, and regretted it \'d0 it smelled of petrol, and burned the skin clean off your body.\
\
The newsagent was run by a late thirties everyman called Gary. He had black hair, always look halfway smart, and seemed to always be on the receiving end of sarcasm from his \'d2shop girl\'d3. He wasn\'d5t her Dad, but their working relationship certainly boredered on father daughter.\
\
I never did find out her name. She was lovely. Probably only 18, and no doubt wiser in the ways of the world than me. She had brown bobbed hair, twinkling green eyes and a pinnafore that concealed any clue to the rest of her charms. I decided she was probably a good reason to buy a newspaper on a morning.\
\
Of course the only problem with having an alterior motive for going in the newspaper shop on account of the girl behind the counter is that you suddenly become paranoid about your purchases. Do you really want to be seen buying \'d2Personal Computer World\'d3 ?\
\
I figured computer magazines were probably one up from porno mags, so bought them anyway \'d0 along with the hangover from my student days; FHM and Loaded.\
\
Loaded was an out and out \'d2lad mag\'d3 \'d0 filled with articles about the latest Z-list celeb, photoshoots with various young strumpets known only to the television adoring section of society, and news stories of drunken exploits, parties, and jokes you couldn\'d5t tell your parents. FHM on the other hand had photoshoots of B-list celebs \'d0 the cast of baywatch and such like. Buying FHM was somehow more acceptible than Loaded.\
\
In base terms, Loaded was to Hustler as FHM was to Playboy.\
\
On this particular morning, I picked up a copy of The Independent, and plonked it down on the counter.\
\
This was without doubt a \'d2Watermelon moment\'d3.\
\
Any girl in the universe knows what I am talking about. For the rest of humanity, an explanation \'d0 in the 1980s movie \'d2Dirty Dancing\'d3, the character \'d2Baby\'d3 played by Jennifer Grey is a young strumpet seeking the attentions of the focus of her infatuation \'d0 a dancer played by Patrick Swayze. Swayze\'d5s main purpose throughout the movie seems to be (a) to take his top off as much as possibe, and (b) to gyrate against women while dancing.\
\
Thrown into a scene where Baby enters the underground dance world inhabited in an impossibly unlikely manner by Swayze, her excuse for being there is \'d2I carried a watermelon\'d3.\
\
These two basic ideas (no shirt, and crotch rubbing dance routine) seem to have created a mythology that has entered the gene pool. I\'d5m sure girls are born these days with the phrase \'d2I carried a watermelon\'d3 etched into their psyche.\
\
If Captain Kirk had displayed a similar gratory dance routine while fighting aliens with his shirt off, the world could have ended up a very different place. Perhaps we won\'d5t think about that for too long.\
\
Where were we? Ah yes. Stood in front of shop girl.\
\
\'d2One pound please\'d3\
\
\'d2Here you go\'d3\
\
Berk. Of all the impressive introductions I could have made, I chose \'d2Here you go\'d3.\
\
While wandering up Church Green towards work, I played the scene through in my head. Arriving at the newspaper shop leaning from the top of a limmo like Richard Gere in Pretty Woman. Whoever bought a newspaper while leaning from the roof of a limmo?\
\
Idiot.\
\
A lady passed in the opposite direction towing some poor unfortunate rat of a dog on a lead. It was one of those little white fluffy dogs about the same size as a handbag, with a leg on each corner.\
\
It occurred to me that if I took a run up and caught it just right, I could probably kick it quite a long way \'d0 get some real height on it.\
\
Past the church, and out across the Leas, I started thinking about database stuff. The world of my newspaper shop muse was swapped for referential integrity and cascading updates.\
\
I opened the office door and wandered through to my desk. It was 8:30, and not many people were in yet. After hanging my coat on the back of the chair and switching the computer on, I wandered off to wash my coffee mug up.\
\
And there she was.\
\
Sitting in the end office \'d0 the glass walled half conservatory \'d0 was the prettiest young blonde girl I had ever seen. Steve was sitting opposite, leaning back in his usual head cradling pose, talking and smiling.\
\
Who was she? Was she new?\
\
While making my coffee I peeked around the corner of the kitchen door, pretending to look around the office. Over Steve\'d5s shoulder she looked at me.\
\
Oh shit.\
\
Then a cunning plan formed in my head. I\'d5ll offer them a drink.\
\
\'d2Good morning! \'d0 can I get you two a hot drink?\'d3\
\
\'d2We\'d5ve already got one thanks Jon\'d3\
\
I closed the door and walked back down the office with my coffee, pretending to whistle, and pretending to be cool. As cool as you can be when you didn\'d5t have a shave that morning, and your hair is sticking up a bit on one side. I nearly sat down at the wrong desk, but she wouldn\'d5t have known that.\
\
Over the next few minutes David and Graham arrived. As might be predicted, the new attraction was not missed by them either.\
\
\'d2Who\'d5s that John?\'d3\
\
\'d2Don\'d5t know \'d0 they have been in there ever since I arrived\'d3\
\
\'d2Marks out of two?\'d3\
\
\'d2I\'d5ll give her one!\'d3 said David in the manner a seven year old might while recounting the best joke ever that he had just heard in the playground.\
\
Graham lifted one eyebrow in James Bond fashion and made an excuse to walk up the office. So did David.\
\
I heard \'d2Hot drink Steve?\'d3 in the distance, and smiled.\
\
A little later \'d0 while retreating from the underneath of my desk arse first, I got to meet the mystery girl.\
\
Straightening up, with a pen between my teeth, and tucking my shirt in, I said a muffled \'d2Hello!\'d3 and shook her hand.\
\
Sonia was apparently introducing her to everybody.\
\
\'d2This is Hailey. She\'d5s starting today, and will be helping me with paperwork, filing, typing\'c9\'d3\
\
\'d2And making us lovely coffees!\'d3\
\
I smiled, and mouthed \'d2take no notice\'d3 to her. She was probably only 17, and straight out of school. Now she was stood in front of me, there was nothing of her at all, but by crikey was she ever pretty.\
\
I\'d5m not quite sure how some girls do it, but her expertly messy short hair looked like a still had been taken of a movie on a windy day, and was now walking around on top of her head. She had huge blue eyes, and a huge colgate smile.\
\
Later in the day I nearly caused Sonia to wet herself.\
\
While sorting out a computer for Hailey, she was leaning out of my way, and slid half off her office chair. If anybody had walked in at that moment, they would have wondered what on earth was going on. Thankfully the company wasn\'d5t big enough to have an HR person.\
\
Hailey\'d5s legs were stuck between the chair and the desk, while she approximated a limbo act, leaning on the floor and in fits of giggles\'c9\
\
\'d2I can\'d5t get up!\'d3\
\
I stood up from my own precarious stretch to plug in a monitor cable, and took her by her wrist. Not having much experience of lifting model type girls from the floor, or having much clue about elegance and grace, I just lifted her back on the chair.\
\
Setting her back down, Sonia exploded in giggles, spitting her cup of tea across her keyboard.\
\
\'d2What?\'d3\
\
\'d2Oh Jon\'d3\
\
\'d2What?\'d3\
\
Hailey was killing herself laughing now too.\
\
\'d2You just lifted her up like a rag doll!\'d3\
\
\'d2She doesn\'d5t weigh much\'d3\
\
\'d2That\'d5s not the point! Oh.. I\'d5m going to wee myself\'d3\
\
Graham had seen it too, and was grinning.\
\
I had no idea why they all though my lifting her back on her chair was so funny. I guess I had lifted her bodily into the air by her wrist, but I was kind of busy at the time. What was I supposed to have done? Swept her up in my arms?\
\
I might know much, but I knew Hailey was embarassed now \'d0 judging from her beetroot cheeks.\
\
\'d2Are you okay?\'d3\
\
\'d2Yes, fine\'d3, she said, wiping a tear from her eye, still giggling.\
\
I switched her computer on, and it started spurting text up onto the screen.\
\
\'d2Do you understand all this stuff then?\'d3\
\
\'d2Yep\'d3\
\
\'d2Blimey. It\'d5s all gobbledegook to me\'d3\
\
\'d2Me too, but don\'d5t tell anybody\'d3\
\
\'d2Really?\'d3\
\
It would be uncharitable to say that Hailey was stupid, because she certainly wasn\'d5t. She did reinforce many of the sterotypes about blondes though.\
\
After getting her logged into Windows, and showing her how to write letters, save them and print them out, I wandered back to my desk.\
\
I overheard Sonia asking Halley if she knew the key to print in Wordstar a few minutes later.\
\
While munching on my lunch a little later in the day, it struck me that I knew Hailey better than David or Graham now - a certain smugness came over me. I also started worrying for her \'d0 she hadn\'d5t met Mr Lines yet. He was at a doctors appointment and wouldn\'d5t be in until after lunch.\
\
No he wasn\'d5t. I could hear him. He\'d5d met her.\
\
\'d2Wehey! Hey! Look at this Sonia! They\'d5ve got me an assistant! You\'d5re sat at the wrong desk young lady \'d0 here\'d5s where you can sit - Angela \'d0 you\'d5re moving desks to up here.\'d3\
\
\'d2No I\'d5m bloody not!\'d3\
\
\'d2It\'d5s alright young Hailey \'d0 you let Mr Lines look after you\'d3\
\
Hailey didn\'d5t know what to say or do, and Sonia \'d0 despite her better judgement \'d0 looked like she might wet herself again.\
\
\'d2Leave her alone David!\'d3\
\
Suddenly Mr Lines became the father of daughters I didn\'d5t know he had, and my perception of him changed.\
\
\'d2It\'d5s lovely to meet you Hailey. My name is David Lines. You do as my mate Sonia says, and you won\'d5t go far wrong.\'d3\
\
There was suddenly a warmth. The letcherous old git had turned into a favourite uncle at the flick of a switch. Here was the Mr Lines I would grow to like, and never forget.\
}