{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 I have been playing chess recently.\
\
I haven\'d5t played chess in a very long time. I suppose if I was going to more accurately describe my antics, I would say that I push the pieces around the board, and pretend that I used to know what I was doing.\
\
The thing is, I used to be quite good at chess. I studied it\'e2 read books about it \'e2\'80\'93 impressed people at dinner parties (or rather annoyed them, if the chess set belonged to them). I remember playing a friend in the early hours of the morning while both drunk, and losing a piece early on. He remarked afterward that my entire demeanor changed in that moment \'e2\'80\'93 apparently I shut out all conversation, and started frowning really rather a lot. A massacre followed, and he tipped his king over a few minutes later. We both laughed about it afterwards.\
\
In some ways I look back at chess a little wistfully. It\'e2\'80\'99s the only board game I\'e2\'80\'99ve ever been remotely good at, and yet I pretty-much discovered my limits. Without a lot more talent, or a lot more hard work, there was no way I was going to get any better at it.\
\
I don\'d5t really remember learning to play chess.\
\
I remember a black and white plastic set encased in foam that my cousin brought with him one Thursday night in the early 1980s (he always visited on Thursday nights). I also remember playing against my Grandfather - my Dad\'d5s Dad - at his house, with a wooden set. I remember him taking ages to choose his moves, and always beating me. I also remember playing against friends during wet break-times at school, and always losing. One particular boy - Stephen Beegoo - would invariably beat all comers, but nobody got angry because he was the sort of person you couldn't get angry with. Everybody liked him.\
\
The turning point came when I was off work with a virus for several days in the early 1990s. I sat in my room with my Grandfather\'e2\'80\'99s wooden chess set (he had given it to me), and an early computer chess gadget that I had bought while on holiday the year before. Over the course of those few days I sat for the first time and really thought about how the game worked.\
\
In the same way that I had stumbled upon Sine and Cosine while writing a video game to drive a car around the screen several years before doing trigonometry in math at school, I discovered I had worked out the first 10 or so moves of the Ruy Lopez, or \'d2Spanish\'d3 chess opening while playing against the computer.\
\
A few months later I played my Dad \'e2\'80\'93 for the first time since I was little - and wiped him off the board. As he tipped his King over, he said \'d2go and pick on somebody your own size\'d3.\
\
In the succeeding years, I have hardly played at all, but I have somehow found myself coerced into teaching several children - friends children, and my own. Of course you never really stretch yourself against children; you\'e2\'80\'99re trying to balance the game, and setup chances for them \'e2\'80\'93 testing them the entire time. It turns out that not winning in a non-suspicious manner is really, really difficult.\
\
I guess my problem with chess - and no doubt the reason I so rarely play any more - is because I know I reached my limit. I read countless books about the history of the game, strategy, tactics, theory, and so on. I often wondered how much effect the knowledge really had, until I played my Dad a couple of years ago - helping one of our girls get her own back on him. Watching what he was doing, and suggesting "doing this sort of thing in that sort of position" quickly tipped two games in a row in our favor \'e2\'80\'93 even though I was openly discussing the ideas while we played.\
\
Knowledge of ideas and concepts only gets you so far though \'e2\'80\'93 at some point against serious competition you need to start calculating - working out entire strings of best moves far into the future - and that\'d5s where I fall down. Such \'e2\'80\'9csight\'e2\'80\'9d of the board requires hours of practice each week \'e2\'80\'93 plain old fashioned hard work. It doesn't help that of the books I read, I was always far more interested in the human story, than the game itself. The history of chess is littered with geniuses that became utter, utter madmen.\
\
For a couple of years myself and a co-worker played nearly every lunchtime as an excuse to get away from our desks. I won nearly every game we played, and admired his tenacity in offering to play again, and again, and again. One particular game sticks in my mind where I lost my queen early in the game. Several colleagues realised I might lose, and started watching \'e2\'80\'93 and witnessed perhaps the best game I ever played from that point forwards.\
\
Another memorable opponent was a company director who thought himself quite good. We only ever played twice \'e2\'80\'93 the first time I was chatting with people and taking phone calls while we played \'e2\'80\'93 and lost. The second time I tried rather harder, and systematically deconstructed him. It was awful, but I couldn\'e2\'80\'99t help thinking he brought it upon himself \'e2\'80\'93 having displayed such confidence in his ability.\
\
Then of course there was the time I went to a chess club.\
\
You know those quiet kids that you remember from school who didn\'e2\'80\'99t fit in? The ones who didn\'e2\'80\'99t really look after themselves \'e2\'80\'93 or rather, they didn\'e2\'80\'99t seem as concerned as everybody else with brushing their hair, or making anything like a good first impression. It turns out they went to the chess club. I'm not talking about EVERYBODY at the chess club - just a sizeable minority.\
\
Nobody took any notice of me on my arrival, and I spent the greater part of the evening teaching a very bored girlfriend of one of the players how to play. I think she took pity on me because I was sitting alone. I\'d5m guessing I was also one of the few people there that didn\'d5t nervously leer at her (she was beautiful).\
\
After perhaps an hour, a tall, charismatic guy with dark hair breezed into the room and greeted several of the members who looked up from their boards. He spotted me, and offered to give me a game.\
\
It all started rather quietly, and I couldn\'e2\'80\'99t believe I wasn\'e2\'80\'99t being torn apart. As time wore on, my position got better, and better. He became an ashen, gaunt figure, head in his hands at the other end of the board. An audience formed.\
\
Although he eventually won, he tried to sign me up for the local team immediately. It turned out he played in European competitions, and had just received the shock of his life.\
\
I\'e2\'80\'99m not quite sure why, but I never went back.\
\
Over the last few years I can't remember playing chess at all, other than on a phone app during long commutes to client sites with work, or with garden chess sets discovered on days-out with the children.\
\
And then the internet just sort of happened.\
\
You have always been able to play chess on the internet - either through commercial sites such as the "Internet Chess Club", or free services such as "FICS" (the Free Internet Chess Server), but in the last couple of years a few websites have become more popular that let you play for free in a web browser, or a mobile app - chess.com comes to mind.\
\
Just the number of people playing at any time of day or night always impresses me - literally tens of thousands of simultaneous games going on, all over the world. I will often sit down late at night, and put a request in to start a 10 minute game with somebody - and a name will pop up within seconds, with a flag from a distant part of the world. It's almost as much fun charting the different countries your opponents come from, as playing the game itself.}