{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Towards the end of my first day at ABS, Steve invited me over, pushed his chair away from his desk, and pursed his fingers in front of him.\
\
"We want you to connect all the computers together, and make a database of all the customers, quotes, and orders so everybody can get at stuff quickly while they are on the phone"\
\
He grinned.\
\
"How does that sound?"\
\
I didn't quite know how to explain that the closest I had come to a network was the mysterious metal connectors on the back of the computers at college. I knew the wires left t-shaped fittings, and dissappeared into plastic trunking around the perimeter of the room. Beyond that I had no clue. There could have been a room of telephony operators hidden somewhere in the college campus for all I know \'96 beeping and screeching at each other in the same manner modems did.\
\
A bizarre scene formed in my head of two telegraph receptionists sitting across from one another, both wearing thick glasses, and plaid skirts.\
\
\'93eeeeeeee A\'94\
\
\'93sssshhhhhhhhhhhhhh\'94\
\
\'93bong bong bong bong\'94\
\
\'93eeee A\'94\
\
Only those who remember the era of modems and sub 56K connections to the internet will remember the tones made by V32bis while handshaking. Some will have blanked it from their memory.\
\
"Okay \'96 I\'92ll get started with ordering the kit to connect the computers"\
\
"Yep \'96 while you\'92re at it, we could probably do with an audit of exactly what we have around the place"\
\
I learned pretty quickly that if you wore new clothes to work, the chances of finding yourself scrabbling around on the floor under people\'92s desks was increased a hundred fold. While the voyeuristic side of the more adventurous mind would find a world of possibility in peering underneath desks, I can assure you that the reality is in fact very, very different from any fantasy. For one, any girl with even two brain cells devotes one and a half of them to keeping anything that shouldn\'92t be seen away from prying eyes. For two, you\'92re far more likely to find yourself knee deep in encrusted pizza debris under 20 stone \'93fat Alan\'92s\'94 desk while he attempts to bend down to watch \'96 which of course he cannot without firing several buttons across the office like bullets. Fat Alan will also think he knows a lot about what you are doing, and volunteer his knowledge without request.\
\
There was nobody called Fat Alan, for the record - I just invented him.\
\
Over the next hour or so I set off around the office on a mini adventure, notepad in hand.\
\
\'93Hi Sonia\'94\
\
\'93Oh hi John \'96 how can I help you?\'94\
\
\'93I just need to take a look at your computer \'96 find out what it is.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93Because we\'92re going to connect all the computers together\'94\
\
\'93Does that mean you\'92ll be able to see my screen?\'94 (a look of horror spread across her face)\
\
\'93No. It means they computers will form their own intelligence and run the company while we are all electrocuted and used as biological batteries\'94\
\
(I didn\'92t really say that, but I might have thought it)\
\
\'93No. It\'92s so you\'92ll be able to get quick access to what other people have done \'96 and make your job easier\'94\
\
\'93Oh. Okay then. I\'92ll go and make a cup of tea. Hang on \'96 I need to save this Doc\'85 oh bugger!\'94\
\
Somehow Sonia had hit the key for "exit without saving" instead of "save". Goodbye document.\
\
\'93Can you get it back?\'94\
\
\'93Did you save it?\'94\
\
\'93No\'94\
\
A few moments later there were angry banging-about noises in the kitchen.\
\
Sonia had a 386. Oh dear. Just a few years previously this would have been a very fine computer to have. Something to be proud of. Now it was akin to comparing a roller skate with a Ford Mustang (not a bad analogy \'96 the average PC of 1995 was built not unlike a Ford Mustang \'96 i.e. it weighed about the same as an ocean liner).\
\
So \'96 if Sonia was going to run Windows for Workgroups, she would probably need a new computer.\
\
On to Graham \'96 man about town Will Carling lookalike. When I arrived at his desk, he was miraculously not on the phone. My arrival seemed to spark a show of manlyness between Graham and Dave \'96 for both mine and Angie\'92s benefit no doubt.\
\
\'93Got a girlfriend then Jon?\'94\
\
\'93No\'85\'94\
\
Graham grinned and rolled away from his desk, leaning back with his hands behind his head.\
\
\'93Don\'92t blame you \'96 nothing but trouble, women\'94\
\
\'93You would say that, if Shirley caught you with that barmaid from the Three Horseshoes\'94\
\
I worked out Shirley must be Graham's wife \'96 the stunning woman stood with arms around great looking kids in a photo on his desk.\
\
\'93Oh christ \'96 you should have seen her on Friday night. She kept bending over in front of me to get peanuts for people in the bar\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d have a heart attack if she said anything to you\'94\
\
\'93Who says she hasn\'92t ?\'94\
\
\'93Yeah right\'94\
\
You could see that Dave was now searching for some impressive annecdote from his inflated past to impress me with in turn \'96 something to outdo Graham. Thankfully Mr Lines arrived.\
\
\'93You young lads haven\'92t got a clue. When I was a test pilot in Bangkok, I would have been straight in there\'94\
\
Angie had had enough.\
\
\'93Oy! You lot. You\'92re embarassing him. Pack it in.\'94\
\
Graham and Dave grinned at me. Angie continued;\
\
\'93mind you, it\'92s the quiet one\'92s you\'92ve got to watch, isn\'92t it \'96 I bet our new boy\'92s a right dirty so and so\'94\
\
Mr Lines had heard enough too;\
\
\'93That\'92s enough! Come on, get on with your work\'94\
\
\'93Whoo hooOOP\'94 (the closest in writing you can get to Angies\'92s submarine dive claxon laugh when anything vaguely naughty was suggested)\
\
It turned out the rest of the office had half-passable computers \'96 a mixture of 486SX and DX machines. Given the arrival of the Pentium, they were now yesterday\'92s news, but quite capable of running Windows.\
\
Hand written list in hand, I went back to my desk and set about typing it up. Of course we didn\'92t have Microsoft Office, because \'96 well \'96 frankly this was before it became ubiquitous in offices across the land, and everybody had a favourite application for a particilar job.\
\
Part of the reason everybody had a favourite application was because Windows of the 1995 era was spectacularly shite at running more than one application at the same time. One or two blue screen of death (BSOD) lockups per day was considered quite lucky.\
\
The spreadsheet of choice in the office \'96 installed on every computer \'96 was SuperCalc 3. Apparently the height of DOS spreadsheet cleverness (which I was advised of by Steve, despite my knowledge to the contrary), Supercalc was the application on which the production side of the business was run.\
\
Programming Supercalc could perhaps best be described in terms of having only two commands in a hypothetical programming language \'96 \'93PRINT\'94 and \'93GOTO\'94.\
\
So what might I use to write up my audit? Microsoft Write. The predecessor of Wordpad. After a couple of minutes of typing at a speed that raised eyebrows around the office (their first experience of anybody that could type), I had my audit written up. One problem. I had no printer \'96 and with no network in existence yet, no way to connect a printer short of wiring one to my computer.\
\
So the next problem to solve was networking.\
\
It turned out (after some furious book buying and reading) that the mysterious metal connectors at college were for \'9310-Base T\'94 ethernet, using BNC connectors. They looked very similar to the coaxial cables used for cable television \'96 because they were the same damn thing.\
\
Looking through a trade catalogue containing all manner of rocket scientist toys and gadgets to do with networking that I had no idea about, I determined there were two ways we could go \'96 \'93Cat 45\'94, or \'93BNC\'94. The first option was the future, but the network cards and cables cost a couple of pounds more than BNC. Steve told me to buy BNC.\
\
Of course it\'92s only with hindsight that you slap your forehead and call yourself a complete f*cking idiot. It would be three years until we audited the network, and found the run between our network terminators was over twice as long as the advised limit. Another story for another time.\
\
The order form for the various computer hardware read like a wordsearch puzzle. Of course no spelling checkers complained, because Microsoft Write didn\'92t have one.\
\
My final task, and the one that would consume me for perhaps the next year \'96 was the invention and development of a database to run the company. A system to end all systems \'96 to perform everything the company needed to, and to empower staff, create efficiencies, and reduce paperwork.\
\
The system would be built upon the recently released Microsoft Access 2. Microsoft SQL Server existed, but was priced firmly in the realm of the enterprise \'96 not the 30 employee small business with a geek in charge of IT.\
\
Microsoft Access was fine \'96 very impressive even. The trouble with things that seem impressive is that you tend to try and use them far beyond their intended application. A good analogy would be trying to use a clockwork cine camera to record everything made by the BBC.\
\
Little would I know on this first day that the database would eventually become known throughout the comany as \'93Damon\'94 \'96 after Damon Hill. Apparently because it was slow and and crashed a lot (which Damon did that year. A lot).}